<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="access-control-policy">
  <title>Access Control Policy</title>
  <topic id="introduction">
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <body>
      <p>This policy gives an overview of access control security principles and responsibilities within the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/>.
        It provides a summary of the  policies and guides that apply to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> access management.</p>
      <p>To help identify formal policy statements,
        each is prefixed with an identifier of the form:
        <codeph>POLACPxxx</codeph>,
        where xxx is a unique ID number.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="audience">
    <title>Audience</title>
    <body>
      <p>This policy is aimed at:
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Technical users</dt>
            <dd>These are in-house <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Digital and Technology staff
              responsible for implementing controls throughout technical design,
              development,
              system integration,
              and operation.
              This includes DevOps,
              Software Developers,
              Technical Architects,
              and Service Owners.
              It also includes Incident Managers from the Event,
              Problem,
              Incident,
              CSI,
              and Knowledge (EPICK) Team.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Service Providers</dt>
            <dd>Defined as any other <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> business group,
              agency,
              contractor,
              IT supplier,
              and partner who in any way designs,
              develops or supplies services (including processing,
              transmitting and storing data),
              for or on behalf of the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>General users</dt>
            <dd>All other staff working for the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
      <p>"All <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> users" refers to General users,
        Technical users,
        and Service Providers,
        as defined previously.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="policy-sections">
    <title>Policy Sections</title>
    <body>
      <p>This policy aligns to industry standards and frameworks,
        and is divided into four security categories (and subsections describing the controls) addressing:
      <ol>
        <li>Business Requirements of Access Controls.</li>
        <li>System and Application Access Controls.</li>
        <li>User Access Management.</li>
        <li>User Responsibilities.</li>
      </ol></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="best-practice-framework---iaaa">
    <title>Best Practice Framework - IAAA</title>
    <body>
      <p>Identification,
        Authentication,
        Authorisation,
        and Accounting (IAAA) are the core principles of an Access Control Policy.
        The principles apply to all security categories described in this policy,
        as follows:
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Identification</dt>
            <dd><codeph>POLACP001:</codeph> The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> provide a unique ID that is assigned,
              named,
              and linked to a private account,
              for each user.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Authentication</dt>
            <dd><codeph>POLACP002:</codeph> To access <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> systems,
              users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> authenticate themselves.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Authorisation</dt>
            <dd><codeph>POLACP003:</codeph> Specifying access rights,
              privileges,
              and resources to users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be granted in line with the principle of least privilege.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Accounting</dt>
            <dd><codeph>POLACP004:</codeph> Successful and unsuccessful attempts to access systems and user activities conducted while using systems
              <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be recorded in logs.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
      <note>If any of the controls within this policy cannot be applied,
        they are considered an exception to be assessed for inclusion within a risk register.</note>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="business-requirements-of-access-control">
    <title>Business Requirements of Access Control</title>
    <body>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s business or strategic requirements limit access to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
        information and information processing facilities,
        as described in the following subsections.</p>
    </body>
    <topic id="access-control-policy-1">
      <title>Access Control Policy</title>
      <body>
        <p><codeph>POLACP005:</codeph> This access control policy <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be established and maintained,
          based on business and information security requirements,
          to inform associated standards and guidance,
          for all users.</p>
        <p><codeph>POLACP006:</codeph> The policy <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> also follow the additional principles of:
          <ul>
            <li>"Need-to-know".</li>
            <li>Non-repudiation of user actions.</li>
            <li>Least privilege.</li>
            <li>User access management.</li>
          </ul></p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="access-to-networks-and-network-services">
      <title>Access to Networks and network services</title>
      <body>
        <p>This subsection aligns to the principle of least access,
          to protect a network and network services which are covered in other areas of this policy,
          specifically:
        <ul>
          <li>Authorisation procedures for showing who (role-based) is allowed to access what,
            and when.
            Refer to subsections <xref href="#information-access-restrictions" format="dita">Information Access Restrictions</xref> and
            <xref href="#management-of-privileged-access-rights" format="dita">Management of Privileged Access Rights</xref>.</li>
          <li>Management controls and procedures to prevent access and real-time monitoring.
            Refer to the categories called <xref href="#system-and-application-access-control" format="dita">System and Application Access Control</xref>
            and <xref href="#user-access-management" format="dita">User Access Management</xref>,
            with monitoring covered in the subsections called <xref href="#password-management-system" format="dita">Password Management System</xref>
            and <xref href="#management-of-privileged-access-rights" format="dita">Management of Privileged Access Rights</xref>.</li>
        </ul></p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="system-and-application-access-control">
    <title>System and Application Access Control</title>
    <body>
      <p><codeph>POLACP007:</codeph> The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> strive to prevent unauthorised access
        to systems and applications,
        as described in the following subsections.</p>
    </body>
    <topic id="information-access-restrictions">
      <title>Information Access Restrictions</title>
      <body>
        <p><codeph>POLACP008:</codeph> Access to information and application system functions <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be restricted
          by following access control policies and procedures.</p>
        <p><codeph>POLACP009:</codeph> In particular,
          System Designers and Administrators <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> use adequate authentication techniques
          to identify with confidence user access to their system or data,
          using the principle of "least privilege".
          Refer to the guidance on <xref href="authorisation.dita" format="dita">Authorisation</xref> for more detail.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="secure-log-on-procedures">
      <title>Secure Log-on Procedures</title>
      <body>
        <p><codeph>POLACP010:</codeph> Where required by the access control policy,
          access to systems and applications <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be controlled by a secure log-on procedure,
          including the following points:
        <ul>
          <li><codeph>POLACP011:</codeph> Multi-user (MU) accounts <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be managed carefully using PAM or a Bastion server,
            to avoid accountability type security risks.
            <ph audience="audience-tech">Refer to the <xref href="multi-user-accounts-and-public-facing-service-accounts-guide.dita"
              format="dita">Multi-user Accounts and Public-Facing Service Accounts</xref> guidance.</ph></li>
          <li audience="audience-tech"><codeph>POLACP012:</codeph> Front-end users accessing the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s public services
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> authenticate via the GOV.UK Verify Service.
            Refer to the <xref href="passwords.dita" format="dita">User Facing Services</xref> guidance.</li>
          <li><codeph>POLACP013:</codeph> System Designers for internal systems <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> use the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s
            single sign-on (SSO) solution to authenticate via an Identity and Access system.</li>
          <li><codeph>POLACP014:</codeph> Passwords <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymustnot"/> be stored or transmitted over the network in clear text,
            nor be protected with encryption that has known security weaknesses.
            <ph audience="audience-tech">Refer to the
              <xref href="password-management-guide.dita"
              format="dita">Password Management Guide</xref>.</ph></li>
        </ul></p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="password-management-system">
      <title>Password Management System</title>
      <body>
        <p><codeph>POLACP015:</codeph> The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s password management systems <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be interactive,
          ensure quality passwords are used,
          and <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> store and transmit passwords in a protected form,
          specifically:
        <ul>
          <li><codeph>POLACP016:</codeph> Systems <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> support <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> password requirements
            that are provisioned and maintained by System Administrators. </li>
          <li><codeph>POLACP017:</codeph> System Administrators <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> always have time-bound administrative sessions,
            which <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be protected using
            <xref href="multi-factor-authentication-mfa-guide.dita" format="dita">Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)</xref>.
            <p><codeph>POLACP018:</codeph> The system <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> regularly monitor,
            review,
            and revoke these sessions when no longer required.</p></li>
          <li><codeph>POLACP019:</codeph> Strong passwords,
            separate and unique for each account or service,
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be created and maintained by all users.
            Refer to the <ph audience="audience-tech"><xref href="password-management-guide.dita" format="dita">Password Management Guide, Roles and Responsibilities section</xref>, </ph>
              <xref href="passwords.dita" format="dita">Passwords</xref> and
              <xref href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/cyberaware/home#action-2" format="html" scope="external">CyberAware advice</xref>.</li>
          <li><codeph>POLACP020:</codeph> Users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> change a password initially received by a system or support team
            before carrying out <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> tasks.
            Refer to <xref href="passwords.dita" format="dita">Passwords</xref>.</li>
          <li><codeph>POLACP021:</codeph> Password history and blocking of commonly guessed passwords <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be enabled in a system.
            <ph audience="audience-tech">Refer to the
              <xref href="password-creation-and-authentication-guide.dita"
              format="dita">Password Creation and Authentication Guide</xref>.</ph></li>
          <li>Regular password change is not required,
            as it is an <xref href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/blog-post/your-password-expiry-policy-may-have-reached-its-expiry-date" format="html"
            scope="external">outdated and ineffective practice</xref>.</li>
          <li><codeph>POLACP022:</codeph> Password managers or vaults used at the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> align to
            industry standards to securely store and transmit passwords in a protected form.
            <ph audience="audience-tech">Refer to <xref href="password-managers.dita" format="dita">Password Managers</xref> and
            <xref href="password-storage-and-management-guide.dita" format="dita">Password Vaults and
              Managers</xref>.</ph></li>
        </ul></p>
        <note>Contact the <xref href="#contact-details" format="dita">Cyber Assistance Team</xref>
          if you have specialised needs when selecting or using a storage tool.</note>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="access-control-to-program-source-code">
      <title>Access Control to Program Source Code</title>
      <body>
        <ul>
          <li><codeph>POLACP023:</codeph> When coding in the open,
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Technical users and Service Providers <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/>
            follow coding best practices and keep code separate from configuration and data.</li>
        </ul>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="user-access-management">
    <title>User Access Management</title>
    <body>
      <p>User access management ensures authorised user access,
        and prevents unauthorised access to systems and services.
        These are described in the following subsections.</p>
    </body>
    <topic id="user-registration-and-de-registration">
      <title>User Registration and de-registration</title>
      <body>
        <p><codeph>POLACP024:</codeph> A formal user registration and de-registration process <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be implemented
          to enable the assignment of access rights,
          specifically:
        <ul>
          <li><codeph>POLACP025:</codeph> Multi-User (MU) or shared ID accounts <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> only be used directly
            if there is no alternative.
            <ph audience="audience-tech">Refer to <xref href="multi-user-accounts-and-public-facing-service-accounts-guide.dita"
              format="dita">Multi-user Accounts and
              Public-Facing Service Accounts</xref>.</ph></li>
          <li><codeph>POLACP026:</codeph> The identity of the new user <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be confirmed.
            For all <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> staff members,
            this is established as part of pre-employment screening and vetting using the Baseline Personnel Security Standard (BPSS),
            which is the joint responsibility of HR (performed on their behalf by Shared Services Connected Ltd),
            and a line manager.
            Refer to <xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/guidance/hr/recruitment/security-vetting/" format="html" scope="external">Security
              Vetting</xref> and the
              <xref href="https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/714002/HMG_Baseline_Personnel_Security_Standard_-_May_2018.pdf" format="pdf" scope="external">BPSS</xref> information.</li>
          <li><codeph>POLACP027:</codeph> The hiring line manager <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> submit a ServiceNow
            <xref href="https://mojprod.service-now.com/moj_sp?id=moj_sc_landing" format="html" scope="external">Order IT</xref>
            role-based access request on behalf of the new user.
            For example,
            a list of Role-based access control (RBAC) groups or applications.</li>
          <li><codeph>POLACP028:</codeph> The hiring manager's line manager (or the budget holder)
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> authorise the application for user registration within ServiceNow
            <xref href="https://mojprod.service-now.com/moj_sp?id=moj_my_approvals" format="html" scope="external">My Approvals</xref>.
            This confirms the user's identity,
            and hence access rights,
            are correct.</li>
          <li><codeph>POLACP029:</codeph> Confirmation of the Clearance Level <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be initiated by a line manager,
            and carried out by <xref href="https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/united-kingdom-security-vetting/about"
            format="html" scope="external">United Kingdom Security Vetting</xref> (UKSV) to recruit new staff (civil servants,
            armed forces and temporary staff),
            or staff changing their <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> roles.
            Refer to <xref href="https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/united-kingdom-security-vetting-clearance-levels/national-security-vetting-clearance-levels"
            format="html" scope="external">Clearance Levels</xref>.</li>
        </ul></p>
        <note>For Contractors or Agency staff,
          HR/SSCL do not seek assurance that the BPSS check has been completed;
          instead,
          the responsibility is with the line manager,
          via the receipt of the Baseline Personnel Security Verification Record Form,
          as described <xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/guidance/security/personnel-security-prior-to-employment/"
          format="html" scope="external">here</xref>.</note>
        <p><codeph>POLACP030:</codeph> De-registration of users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be at the request of line managers and follow the JML process found
          <xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/guidance/hr/end-change-of-employment/" format="html" scope="external">here</xref>.
          The following controls need to be adopted for leavers:
        <ul>
          <li><codeph>POLACP031:</codeph> Line Managers <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> authorise account removal.
            The associated leaver's process can be found on the
            <xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/guidance/hr/end-change-of-employment/" format="html" scope="external">HR intranet page</xref>.</li>
          <li><codeph>POLACP032:</codeph> User accounts and their access rights <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be removed once an individual has left the organisation
            or no longer requires access to the system(s).</li>
          <li><codeph>POLACP033:</codeph> Existing user accounts <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be reviewed every three months by the System Administrator
            to confirm those not used in the last three months,
            and then with <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> HR to approve accounts for removal.</li>
          <li><codeph>POLACP034:</codeph> Remote access authentication token usage <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be reviewed by the System Administrator every three months,
            and when a token is identified as unused in the last three months,
            the account disabled.</li>
          <li><codeph>POLACP035:</codeph> Assigned User roles and privileges <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be reviewed every six to twelve months,
            and those no longer required removed.</li>
        </ul></p>
        <p>For further information on user de-registration,
          refer to the <xref href="enterprise-access-control-policy.dita" format="dita"><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Enterprise Access Control Policy</xref>.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="user-access-provisioning">
      <title>User Access Provisioning</title>
      <body>
        <p><codeph>POLACP036:</codeph> A formal user access provisioning process <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be implemented
          to assign or revoke access rights for all users to all systems and services.
          Specifically for <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>,
          this includes:
        <ul>
          <li><codeph>POLACP037:</codeph> The security clearance required by staff to access specific account types <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/>
            align to the <xref href="https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/united-kingdom-security-vetting-clearance-levels/national-security-vetting-clearance-levels" format="html" scope="external"><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s
              UK security clearance levels</xref>,
              as per requirements such as <xref href="https://security-guidance.service.justice.gov.uk/access-control-guide/#segregation-of-duties"
              format="html" scope="external">segregation of duties</xref>.
              Refer to <xref href="minimum-user-clearance-requirements-guide.dita" format="dita">Minimum User Clearance Levels</xref> guidance.</li>
          <li><codeph>POLACP038:</codeph> MFA <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be used to ensure access to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Information,
            and is only granted to users once their identity is confirmed.
            Refer to the <xref href="multi-factor-authentication-mfa-guide.dita" format="dita">Multi-Factor Authentication</xref> guidance.</li>
          <li><codeph>POLACP039:</codeph> All <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> data access <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> employ adequate authentication techniques
            to identify the system or user with confidence,
            where that system or user requires access to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> systems or data.
            <ph audience="audience-tech">Refer to the <xref href="authentication.dita" format="dita">Authentication</xref> guidance.</ph></li>
          <li><codeph>POLACP040:</codeph> System Administrators <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> maintain the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s systems' security,
            with failure to comply compromising the organisational infrastructure.</li>
          <li><codeph>POLACP041:</codeph> System Administrators <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> maintain an active list of all active and suspended users,
            and maintain their access control to services or applications.</li>
          <li><codeph>POLACP042:</codeph> System Administrators <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/>,
            on a minimum quarterly basis (rotated with other Admins),
            conduct an account audit to check:
            <ul>
              <li>Any escalation of privileges from non-administrator to administrator.</li>
              <li>Any forwarding of email accounts.</li>
              <li>Any taking ownership of user accounts.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li><codeph>POLACP043:</codeph> A user leaving <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> move their data to a shared folder if needed for retention.
            Refer to the <xref href="https://mojprod.service-now.com/moj_sp?id=sc_cat_item&amp;sys_id=c195e78edb73e7441b4ffc45ae9619f2"
            format="html" scope="external">Account Deletion</xref> process.</li>
          <li><codeph>POLACP044:</codeph> If anyone with an <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> account leaves the organisation,
            system administrators <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> retrieve the user's equipment and suspend the account.</li>
          <li><codeph>POLACP045:</codeph> If a user leaving has not returned all <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> assets,
            the line manager <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> initially contact the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/servicedesk"/>
            via <xref href="https://mojprod.service-now.com/moj_sp" format="html" scope="external">Live Chat</xref>,
            or Telephone (0800 917 5148),
            and raise a security incident,
            with the following <xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/documents/2015/04/security-incident-report-form.xls"
            format="xls" scope="external">form</xref> completed and emailed to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/securityemail"/>.
            Refer to the <xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/documents/2015/04/leavers-checklist-for-managers.docx"
            format="docx" scope="external">Leavers checklist for managers</xref> for more information.</li>
        </ul></p>
        <!-- FIXME -->
        <note audience="audience-tech">The previous points are covered by the
          <xref href="system-users-and-application-administrators.dita" format="dita">System Administrators</xref> guidance.</note>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="management-of-privileged-access-rights">
      <title>Management of Privileged Access Rights</title>
      <body>
        <p><codeph>POLACP046:</codeph> The allocation and use of privileged access rights <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be restricted
          and controlled using the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s Access Control Policy.
          This includes:
        <ul>
          <li><codeph>POLACP047:</codeph> Users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> only use their system administrator account when elevated privileges are required.</li>
          <li><codeph>POLACP048:</codeph> MFA <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be used with privileged accounts,
            including access to enterprise-level social media accounts.</li>
          <li><codeph>POLACP049:</codeph> Default passwords <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be managed securely
            and safely by privileged account users<ph audience="audience-tech">,
            described in the <xref href="password-managers.dita" format="dita">Password Manager</xref> guidance</ph>.
            Refer to the <xref href="privileged-account-management-guide.dita" format="dita">Privileged Account Management</xref> guidance for more information.</li>
          <li><codeph>POLACP050:</codeph> All users with ownership and use of privileged accounts <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> have these secured,
            controlled,
            monitored,
            and audited by System Administrators every month using an industry-standard Privileged Access Management (PAM) tool.
            Refer to the <xref href="privileged-account-management-guide.dita" format="dita">Privileged Account Management</xref> guidance for more information.</li>
        </ul></p>
        <note>Privileged access rights provide a Technical user or a Service Provider
          with an enhanced level of access to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s information systems,
          compared to a General user.
          This can include the authorisation to configure networks or systems,
          provision and configure accounts and cloud instances,
          and so on.</note>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="management-of-secret-authentication-information-of-users">
      <title>Management of Secret Authentication Information of Users</title>
      <body>
        <p><codeph>POLACP051:</codeph> The allocation of secret authentication information,
          such as passwords or encryption keys,
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be controlled through formal management:
        <ul>
          <li><codeph>POLACP052:</codeph> User password management <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be configured,
            so a password is changed after the initial log-on and invalid if not used in a specified time.
            <ph audience="audience-tech">Refer to the <xref href="passwords.dita" format="dita">Passwords</xref> guidance.</ph></li>
          <li><codeph>POLACP053:</codeph> System Administrators and systems <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> never send passwords by email,
            as it is an unsecured channel.
            <p><codeph>POLACP054:</codeph> Instead,
            users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> receive a time-limited password-reset link or code to their registered email address or phone number.
            Refer to the Government guidance "<xref href="https://design-system.service.gov.uk/patterns/passwords/" format="html" scope="external">Send a link
              to trigger password resets</xref>".</p></li>
        </ul></p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="review-of-user-access-rights">
      <title>Review of User Access Rights</title>
      <body>
        <p><codeph>POLACP055:</codeph> System Administrators <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> review users' access rights at regular intervals:
        <ul>
          <li>The review of user access rights is covered in this policy under <xref href="#user-access-provisioning" format="dita">User
            Access Provisioning</xref>.</li>
        </ul></p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="removal-or-adjustment-of-access-rights">
      <title>Removal or Adjustment of Access Rights</title>
      <body>
        <p><codeph>POLACP056:</codeph> All employees and external party user's access rights to information and information processing facilities <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/>
          be removed upon termination of their employment,
          contract or agreement,
          or adjusted when changing their role:
        <ul>
          <li>The removal or adjustment of user access rights is covered in this policy under <xref href="#user-access-provisioning" format="dita">User
            Access Provisioning</xref>.</li>
        </ul></p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="user-responsibilities">
    <title>User Responsibilities</title>
    <body>
      <p>Users are required to follow the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s practices in the use of secret authentication.
        This is described in the following subsection.</p>
    </body>
    <topic id="use-of-secret-authentication-information">
      <title>Use of secret authentication information</title>
      <body>
        <ul>
          <li><codeph>POLACP057:</codeph> All users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> follow the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s password policy,
            as referenced in the <xref href="#password-management-system" format="dita">Password Management System</xref>,
            and the associated tools referenced in the <xref href="#secure-log-on-procedures" format="dita">Secure Log-on Procedures</xref>.</li>
        </ul>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="enforcement">
    <title>Enforcement</title>
    <body>
      <ul>
        <li>This policy is enforced by lower-level policies,
          standards,
          procedures,
          and guidance.</li>
        <li>Non-conformance with this policy could result in disciplinary action per the department's disciplinary procedures.
          This could result in penalties up to and including dismissal.
          If an employee commits a criminal offence,
          they may also be prosecuted.
          In such cases,
          the department will always cooperate with the relevant authorities and provide appropriate evidence.</li>
      </ul>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="incidents" conref="conrefs.dita#incidents"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#contact-details"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
