<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="acceptable-use-policy">
  <title>Acceptable Use Policy</title>
  <body>
    <p>This document is the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> Acceptable Use Policy.
    It provides the core set of security principles and expectations on the acceptable use of <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems.</p>
  </body>
  <topic id="introduction">
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <body>
      <p><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems and services are first and foremost provided to support the delivery of the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s business services.
      To achieve this, most <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> users are provided with an appropriate general purpose computer environment,
        and access to services and communication tools such as email and the Internet.</p>
      <p>This policy outlines the acceptable use of <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems and services,
        and the expectations that the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> has on its staff when accessing or using those systems or services.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="scope">
    <title>Scope</title>
    <body>
      <p>This policy covers all Users (including contractors and agency staff) who use <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems or services.</p>
      <p>Failure to adhere to this policy <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymight"/> result in:
      <ul>
        <li>Suspension of access to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems and services.</li>
        <li>For <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> employees, disciplinary proceedings up to and including dismissal.</li>
        <li>For others with access to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems and services,
          including specifically contractors and agency staff,
          termination of contract.</li>
      </ul></p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>POL.ITAUP.001</dt>
          <dd>All Users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be made aware of the Acceptable Use Policy (this document),
            and provided with security awareness training which covers this policy.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>POL.ITAUP.002</dt>
          <dd>All Users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> undergo refresher security awareness training covering this policy,
            every 12 months.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="protection-of-assets">
    <title>Protection of assets</title>
    <body>
      <p>It is paramount that all Users protect the confidentiality of information held on,
        processed,
        and transmitted by <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems.
      All Users have a role in protecting the information assets which are under their control,
        or that they have access to.</p>
      <p><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems have been designed to protect the confidentiality of the data held on them.
        However,
        maintaining this requires the application of,
        and adherence to,
        a clear set of operating procedures by all Users.
        These are collectively know as Security Operating Procedures (SyOPs).</p>
      <p>It is important that all Users of an IT system,
        including support and system administrative Users,
        are familiar with these SyOPs,
        and are provided with the appropriate training.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>POL.ITAUP.003</dt>
          <dd>All IT systems <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> have,
            and maintain,
            a set of Security Operating Procedures (SyOPs).
          For systems undergoing an assurance process,
            these SyOPs <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be included as part of the assurance.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>POL.ITAUP.004</dt>
          <dd>All Users of an IT system,
            including support and system administrative staff,
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> read the applicable SyOPs,
            and <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> acknowledge that they have both read and understood the
            SyOPs before being granted access.
          A record <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be kept of a User being granted access,
            and made available to during assurance,
            or upon authorised request.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>POL.ITAUP.005</dt>
          <dd>All Users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be made aware that non-conformance to the
            system SyOPs constitutes a breach of the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT Security Policy,
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymight"/> result in disciplinary action.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>POL.ITAUP.006</dt>
          <dd>Any change to an IT system's SyOPs <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be approved through an assured change control process,
            before the change is made.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>POL.ITAUP.007</dt>
          <dd>Any request to perform an action on an IT system which contravenes its SyOPs <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be approved by
            the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/catemailtext"/>
            and the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ostemailtext"/>,
            or the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/cisolong"/>,
            before the action is taken.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <p>For most Users,
        access to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems and information held on them is through a desktop device,
        a laptop,
        or a mobile or remote device.
        These devices have the capacity to store large amounts of potentially sensitive information assets.
        It is important that Users follow Information Management processes and handling guidelines to ensure information is stored and accessed appropriately.
        Further information on information handling is provided in the
        <xref href="information-classification-and-handling-policy.dita" format="dita">Information Classification and Handling Policy</xref>.</p>
    </body>
    <topic id="general-security-operating-procedures-syops">
      <title>General Security Operating Procedures (SyOPs)</title>
      <body>
        <p>The policy refers to a key set of general SyOPs which are listed below:
        <ul>
          <!-- FIXME -->
          <li audience="audience-tech"><xref href="privileged-user-guide.dita" format="dita">Privileged User Guide</xref>.</li>
          <li audience="audience-tech"><xref href="system-users-and-application-administrators.dita" format="dita">System Users and Application Administrators</xref>.</li>
          <li audience="audience-basic audience-tech"><xref href="remote-working.dita" format="dita">Remote Working</xref>.</li>
          <!-- FIXME
          <li>Legacy: IT Security Operating Procedures - ICT Equipment: Desktop – Corporate.</li>
          <li>Legacy: IT Security Operating Procedures - ICT Equipment: Mobile Devices - RAS Laptop.</li>
          <li>Legacy: IT Security Operating Procedures - ICT Equipment: Mobile Devices – Blackberry.</li>
          -->
        </ul></p>
        <p>To minimise the number of SyOPs in circulation and standardise procedures,
          the SyOPs listed above act as the primary set,
          which individual IT systems are expected to conform to,
          in terms of their own SyOPs.
          Any deviations or additions are dependent upon approval through the assurance process.</p>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>POL.ITAUP.008</dt>
            <dd>All IT systems <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> have documented SyOPs which comply with the
              general SyOPs listed in this policy (see <xref href="#general-security-operating-procedures-syops" format="dita">here</xref>).
            Any deviations or additions must be recorded in separate SyOPs which form an addendum to one of the SyOPs
              listed <xref href="#general-security-operating-procedures-syops" format="dita">here</xref>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
        <note>An IT system <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymay"/> make use of,
          in their entirety,
          one or more of the SyOPs listed in this policy if the procedures of that IT system do not deviate from those
          described in the general SyOPs.</note>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="removable-media">
      <title>Removable Media</title>
      <body>
        <p>Removable storage media include devices such as USB memory sticks, writeable CDs or DVDs, and external drives.
          These devices <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymight"/> contain large amounts of protectively marked data,
          and so pose a significant risk to the confidentiality of the data they hold.
          As such,
          the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> controls the use of removable media through SyOPs,
          technical security controls,
          and by requiring movements of bulk data to be authorised <ph audience="audience-supplier audience-tech">by using a
          <xref href="data-handling-and-information-sharing-guide.dita" format="dita">Data Movement Form</xref></ph>.</p>
          <dl>
            <dlentry>
              <dt>POL.ITAUP.009</dt>
              <dd>Any removable media device <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be approved by
                <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> security,
                where that device is used to store protectively marked data.
              The type of device and associated SyOPs must be approved by <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
                security prior to operational use.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
              <dt>POL.ITAUP.010</dt>
              <dd>All Users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> ensure that all data stored on or transported
                by removable media is in accordance with the applicable system SyOPs.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
              <dt>POL.ITAUP.011</dt>
              <dd>All Users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> seek approval from the
                <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ostemailtext"/> prior to any bulk transfer of protectively marked data
                using removable media.
              <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> security advises on any technical and procedural requirements,
                such as data encryption and handling arrangements.</dd>
            </dlentry>
          </dl>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="passwords">
      <title>Passwords</title>
      <body>
        <p>The username and password combination,
          in the main,
          is the primary access credential used for authenticating a User to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
          systems,
          and authorising User access to information assets and services provided by that system.
          It is therefore important that Users keep their access credentials safe and secure.</p>
          <dl>
            <dlentry>
              <dt>POL.ITAUP.012</dt>
              <dd>All Users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymustnot"/> share or disclose any passwords with any
                other person.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
              <dt>POL.ITAUP.013</dt>
              <dd>All Users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymustnot"/>:
              <ul>
                <li>Attempt to gain unauthorised access to another User's IT account.</li>
                <li>Attempt to use another Users access credentials to gain access to an
                  <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> system.</li>
                <li>Attempt to access information for which they do not have a 'need-to-know'.</li>
                <li>Use the same password on more than one <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> system.</li>
              </ul></dd>
            </dlentry>
          </dl>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="legal-and-regulatory-requirements">
    <title>Legal and regulatory requirements</title>
    <body>
      <p>There are a number of legal and regulatory requirements that the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> must
        comply with.
        This is in addition to HMG security policy,
        as expressed in the
        <xref href="https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/security-policy-framework" format="html" scope="external">HMG
          Security Policy Framework</xref>.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>POL.ITAUP.014</dt>
          <dd>All Users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymustnot"/> be made aware of legal and regulatory
            requirements that they <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> adhere to when accessing
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> systems.
          These requirements <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be included as part of the SyOPs.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="moj-corporate-image">
    <title><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Corporate Image</title>
    <body>
      <p>Communications sent from <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> systems,
        or products developed using them,
        such as <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> branded documents or presentations,
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymight"/> damage the public image of the
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> if they are for purposes not in the interest of the
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>,
        or they are abusive,
        offensive,
        defamatory,
        obscene,
        or indecent,
        or of such a nature as to bring the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
        or any its employees into disrepute.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>POL.ITAUP.015</dt>
          <dd>All Users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> ensure that
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> systems are not used in an abusive,
            offensive,
            defamatory,
            obscene,
            or indecent way,
            or are of such a nature as to bring the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> or any its employees into
            disrepute.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="potential-to-cause-offence-and-harm">
    <title>Potential to cause offence and harm</title>
    <body>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> has a duty of care to all staff,
        and to provide a positive working environment.
        Part of this duty involves ensuring all staff maintain a high standard of behaviour and conduct.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>POL.ITAUP.016</dt>
          <dd><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> systems <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymustnot"/> be used
            for any activity that causes offence to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> employees,
            customers,
            suppliers,
            partners,
            or visitors,
            or used in a way that violates the
            <xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/guidance/hr/conduct-behaviour/" format="html" scope="external"><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
              Code of Conduct</xref>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="personal-use">
    <title>Personal use</title>
    <body>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> permits limited personal use of its IT systems,
        provided this use does not conflict or interfere with normal business activities.
      The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> monitors the use of its IT systems.
        Any personal use is subject to monitoring and auditing
        (see <xref href="#monitoring-of-communications" format="dita">here</xref>),
        and <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymight"/> also be retained in backup format,
        even after deletion from live systems.</p>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> reserves the right to restrict personal use of its IT systems.
        The main methods employed are:
      <ul>
        <li>Filtering of Internet and email traffic.
          All Internet and email traffic is filtered and analysed.
          Further details are provided <xref href="#electronic-messaging-and-use-of-the-internet" format="dita">here</xref>.</li>
        <li>Policy and procedures.
          This policy and associated SyOPs set out the restrictions placed on the use of
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> systems.</li>
      </ul></p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>POL.ITAUP.017</dt>
          <dd>Users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> ensure that any personal use of
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> systems does not conflict or interfere with normal business
            activities.
          Any conflict <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be reported to the User's line manager.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>POL.ITAUP.018</dt>
          <dd>Users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> ensure that any personal use of
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> systems is consistent with any applicable SyOPs,
            and with this acceptable use policy.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>POL.ITAUP.019</dt>
          <dd>Users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be aware that any personal use of
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> systems which contravenes any applicable SyOPs,
            or this acceptable use policy,
            constitutes a breach of the <xref href="it-security-policy-overview.dita" format="dita">IT Security Policy</xref>
            and <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymight"/> result in disciplinary action.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="maintaining-system-and-data-integrity">
    <title>Maintaining system and data integrity</title>
    <body>
      <p>Users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> comply with all applicable operating procedures,
        and ensure that they do not circumvent any security controls in place.
        Changes to the configuration of an IT system which affect either the integrity of that system or the integrity
        of shared data <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be undertaken or supervised by an
        authorised User or system Administrator.</p>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>POL.ITAUP.020</dt>
            <dd>All Users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> request any changes to systems or equipment
              through the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/servicedesk"/>.
            <ph audience="audience-tech">Further details are provided in the
              <xref href="system-users-and-application-administrators.dita" format="dita">System
                Users and Application Administrators</xref> guidance.</ph></dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="electronic-messaging-and-use-of-the-internet">
    <title>Electronic messaging and use of the Internet</title>
    <body>
      <p>Due to the risks associated with electronic communications such as email and the Internet,
        the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> controls and monitors usage of
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> systems in accordance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.</p>
      <p>IT systems are designed to protect the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> from Internet-borne attacks,
        to reduce the risk of <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> information being leaked or compromised,
        and to support the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> in providing a safe working environment.
      This is mainly achieved through the filtering and monitoring of all Internet and email traffic.</p>
      <p>Also,
        the use of any high bandwidth services,
        such as video steaming websites,
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymight"/> create network capacity issues,
        causing poor performance affecting important <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> services.
      Therefore,
        the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> restricts access to the Internet,
        based on job role.
      Amendments can be made on the submissions of a business case for approval by
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Operational Security Team (OST).</p>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> regards as a disciplinary offence any usage of electric
        communications,
        such as email and other methods including instant messaging and the Internet,
        which breaks the law,
        contravenes <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> HR policies,
        or involves unauthorised access to or handling of material that is deemed to be inappropriate,
        abusive,
        offensive,
        defamatory,
        obscene,
        or indecent.</p>
      <p>External email and the Internet are,
        in general,
        insecure services where it is possible for external entities to intercept,
        monitor,
        change,
        'spoof',
        or otherwise interfere with legitimate content.
        The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> deploys a number of security controls to protect its Users from
        Internet- and email-borne attacks.
        However,
        these controls are reliant on Users remaining vigilant,
        following any applicable SyOPs,
        and <xref href="reporting-an-incident.dita" format="dita">reporting</xref> any suspicious behaviour.</p>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>POL.ITAUP.021</dt>
            <dd>All Users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> use the Internet,
              email,
              and other electronic communication systems only in accordance with this acceptable use policy document.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
    </body>
    <topic id="managing-email-use">
      <title>Managing email use</title>
      <body>
        <p>Users are responsible for ensuring that all information is handled in line with the protective marking of that
          information,
          in accordance with the <xref href="information-classification-and-handling-policy.dita" format="dita">Information
            Classification and Handling Policy</xref>.</p>
        <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> is connected to the Government network,
          which provides a secure environment for sending or receiving emails between Government departments.
        This allows Users with an <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> email account (normally with the suffix
          '<codeph>@justice.gov.uk</codeph>') to send <codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph> emails with
          <xref href="official-official-sensitive.dita" format="dita">handling caveats</xref> such as
          <codeph>SENSITIVE</codeph> to another <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> or government User,
          where their email suffix ends in '<codeph>gov.uk</codeph>'.</p>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>POL.ITAUP.022</dt>
            <dd>All Users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> ensure that information contained within or
              attached to an email is handled in accordance with the
              <xref href="information-classification-and-handling-policy.dita" format="dita">Information
                Classification and Handling Policy</xref>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
        <!-- HERE -->
        <p>Email is a major source of malware,
          and a route into the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> for criminal organisations.
          It <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymight"/> be used to defraud staff,
          or to exfiltrate information.
          All Users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> exercise care when handling emails,
          and <xref href="reporting-an-incident.dita" format="dita">report any suspicious activity as an IT security
            incident</xref>.</p>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>POL.ITAUP.023</dt>
            <dd>All Users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> ensure that they do not:
            <ul>
              <li>Open any attachments to an email where the source is untrusted,
                unknown,
                or unsolicited.</li>
              <li>Click on any links within an email,
                where the source is untrusted,
                unknown,
                or unsolicited.</li>
            </ul></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>POL.ITAUP.024</dt>
            <dd>Where a User suspects that an email received is from an untrusted,
              unknown,
              or unsolicited source,
              they <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
              <xref href="reporting-an-incident.dita" format="dita">report it as an IT security incident</xref>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="connectivity-and-remote-access">
    <title>Connectivity and remote access</title>
    <body>
      <p>Remote access is provided to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> systems and services,
        allowing Users access from offsite and home locations to connect in.
      The main methods of access are either via a laptop or other mobile device.
      Normally,
        remote access is to a protected <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT system.
      As such,
        Users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> be aware of the security controls and procedures of the
        device being used,
        as well as any applicable general physical security considerations.
      This includes any restriction on the carriage of such devices,
        as they <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymight"/> contain HMG protectively marked data,
        or HMG cryptographic material.</p>
      <p><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> security maintains a
        <xref href="accessing-moj-it-systems-from-overseas.dita" format="dita">list of countries</xref> where carriage
        and use of remote access devices is permitted.</p>
      <p audience="audience-basic audience-tech">Further details can be found in the
        <xref href="remote-working.dita" format="dita">Remote Working</xref> guidance.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>POL.ITAUP.025</dt>
          <dd>All Users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be aware of the
            <ph audience="audience-basic audience-tech"><xref href="remote-working.dita" format="dita">Remote
              Working</xref></ph><ph audience="audience-suppliers">applicable remote working</ph> guidance,
            and <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> confirm that they have read and understood it before
            being provided with any remote access devices or equipment such as an RSA token.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>POL.ITAUP.026</dt>
          <dd>Any User wishing to take a remote access device out of the UK <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
            consult the <ph audience="audience-basic audience-tech"><xref href="remote-working.dita" format="dita">Remote
              Working</xref></ph><ph audience="audience-suppliers">applicable remote working</ph> guidance before doing so,
            and the applicable device IT Security Operating Procedures document.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="monitoring-of-communications">
    <title>Monitoring of communications</title>
    <body>
      <p>Communications <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policycan"/> be monitored without notice,
        and on a continual basis,
        for a number of reasons.
        These include compliance with legal obligations,
        effective maintenance of IT systems,
        preventing or detecting unauthorised use or criminal activities such as cyber-intrusion,
        monitoring of service or performance standards,
        providing evidence of business transactions,
        and checking adherence to policies,
        procedures,
        and contracts.</p>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> monitors telephone usage,
        network,
        email,
        and Internet traffic data,
        including sender,
        receiver,
        subject,
        attachments to an email,
        numbers called,
        duration of calls,
        the domain names of websites visited,
        the duration of visits,
        and files uploaded or downloaded from the Internet,
        at a network level.</p>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>,
        so far as possible and appropriate,
        respects User privacy and autonomy whilst they are working,
        but in accordance with the <xref href="#personal-use" format="dita">personal use information</xref>,
        any personal use of <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> systems is also subject to monitoring.
      By carrying out personal activities using <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> systems,
        Users are consenting to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> processing any sensitive personal data
        which <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymight"/> be revealed by such monitoring,
        such as regular visits to a set of websites.</p>
      <p>For the purposes of business continuity,
        it <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymight"/> be necessary for the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
        to access business communications,
        including within email mailboxes,
        while a User is absent from work,
        including for a holiday and because of illness.
      Access is only granted through submission of a formal request to the
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/servicedesk"/>,
        where approval is required from the relevant line manager.
        The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/cisolong"/> and
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> HR are normally consulted as well,
        before access is granted.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>POL.ITAUP.027</dt>
          <dd>All Users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be aware that their electronic communications
            are being monitored in accordance with this acceptable use policy.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>POL.ITAUP.028</dt>
          <dd>All Users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be aware that business communication such as
            email mailboxes <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymight"/> be accessed if they are absent from work.
          This access can only be requested through,
            and authorised by,
            the User's line manager.
            The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ciso"/> and
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> HR are normally consulted as well,
            before access is granted.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="data-protection-considerations">
    <title>Data protection considerations</title>
    <body>
      <p>Acceptable use considerations apply to the storage of personal data.
        This storage includes data hosting in 'cloud' environments,
        or within services or databases hosted or administered outside the UK or the European Economic Area (EEA).</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>POL.ITAUP.029</dt>
          <dd>The default position is that <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> personal data
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshallnot"/> be transferred to or through,
            or stored,
            in the US or elsewhere outside the UK or EEA
            other than in exceptional circumstances.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <p>
        This position also applies where a supplier uses cloud storage facilities in the UK or EEA,
        but their employees outside the UK or EEA are able to view the information for activities such as maintenance or
        trouble-shooting.
        The effect of this access is equivalent to the personal data being held outside the UK or EEA.</p>
      <p>The reason for this position is that even with additional contractual clauses,
        the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> cannot ensure protection of its personal data stored outside the UK
        or EEA,
        due to some government surveillance laws.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>POL.ITAUP.030</dt>
          <dd>A supplier based in the UK or EEA,
            and which stores client data in the UK or EEA,
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> be considered first.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>POL.ITAUP.031</dt>
          <dd>If an alternative supplier cannot be sourced,
            then a Standard Contractual Clause (SCC) and a Transfer Impact Assessment (TIA)
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be completed..</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <p>These documents are reviewed by the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/privacyemailtext"/>,
        after which the transfer <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymight"/> be approved.
        A template for these documents can be requested from <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/privacyemail"/></p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>POL.ITAUP.032</dt>
          <dd>If the outcome of the assessment does not support the transfer and storage of information outside the UK or EEA,
            the Information Security and Risk (ISR) Board <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> review the case,
            and if appropriate,
            accept the risks in order for the supplier to be used.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>POL.ITAUP.033</dt>
          <dd>This acceptable use policy for <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> personal data
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> apply to:
            <ul>
              <li>An existing supplier changing the location of its
                servers,
                storage,
                or services outside the UK or EEA.</li>
              <li>New suppliers.</li>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#contact-details"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
