<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="after-an-incident">
  <title>After an incident</title>
  <body>
    <p>The steps we take after an incident - whether it was a real event or false alarm - are as important as those we do during it, as they allow us to learn and improve. As well as reviewing the incident, it's important to review our process. Did we handle the incident well, or are there things we could have done better?</p>
  </body>
  <topic id="review">
    <title>Review</title>
    <body>
      <p>The <b>Incident Manager</b> is responsible for arranging a 'post-incident review' following the successful recovery from an incident, attended by members of the virtual Incident Response Team and other relevant individuals from affected teams and our suppliers.</p>
      <p>Following the recovery phase, it is important to review the incident to fully understand the root causes of the events, where security monitoring and countermeasures may be improved, and other lessons learned. The output of post-incident reviews can also be used by the Security and Privacy team to inform our  risk assessments.</p>
      <p>Post-incident Reviews are conducted without blame or finger-pointing to encourage open and honest participation so that lessons can be learned and improvements identified. Failing to create the right open, safe environment may cause participants to withhold information crucial to preventing events from occurring again.</p>
      <p>It is important to consider the people, process and technology aspects, and 'what went well' as well as 'even better if,' to continually improve the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/>'s capabilities. It is as important to recognise the good as it is to address any gaps.</p>
      <p>The post-incident review will consider two aspects:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <p>the circumstances that led to the events themselves ("pre-event")</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>the effectiveness and efficiency of the response activities ("post-event")</p>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </body>
    <topic id="pre-event-review-considerations-non-exhaustive">
      <title>Pre-event review considerations (non-exhaustive!)</title>
      <body>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p>Is this a common trend of similar events we are experiencing?</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>What would have prevented the incident from occurring?</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>How could we have detected the events sooner?</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Is this something considered by our cyber risk assessment?</p>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="post-event-review-considerations-non-exhaustive">
      <title>Post-event review considerations (non-exhaustive!)</title>
      <body>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p>How successful was our response?</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>What would have made our response more effective?</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>How could we have made our response more efficient?</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Did we make a sound hypothesis?</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>What was the key thing that led to us understanding the incident?</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Should we create, or update, a playbook for this scenario?</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Did anything hamper our response?</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Was any data or information difficult to obtain?</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Were the right people and tools available?</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Did we have any communication issues?</p>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="review-checklist">
      <title>Review Checklist</title>
      <body>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p>Identify stakeholders needed for post-incident review (inc. third-parties)</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Consider the need for independent facilitation</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Arrange a mutually convenient time for post-incident review</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Share incident report with attendees</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Discuss 'what went well' and 'even better if'</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Do not 'point fingers' or assign blame to individuals</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Record the lessons learned and any further action points</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Communicate the lessons learned with relevant parties</p>
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p>Finally, the Incident Manager closes the incident, and ensures everyone involved is appropriately thanked for their support.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
</topic>
