<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="azure-account-baseline-templates">
  <title>Azure Account Baseline Templates</title>
  <body>
    <p>The lowest acceptable common denominator to appeal to the largest
possible number of people for security-related promises, capabilities
and configurations of <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> Azure accounts.</p>
  </body>
  <topic id="baseline">
    <title>Baseline</title>
    <body>
      <p>The baseline for Azure accounts is formally published as part of the
Security Guidance from the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Digital and Technology Security and Privacy
team.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="background">
    <title>Background</title>
    <body>
      <p>As an organization expands its use of Azure services, there is often a
conversation about the need to create multiple Azure subscriptions to
ensure separation of business processes or for security, compliance, and
billing. We tend to use separate Azure subscriptions for each business
unit so that it can meet the different needs of the organization.
Although creating multiple subscriptions has simplified operational
issues and provided benefits like security and resource isolation, a
smaller blast radius, and simplified billing, it results in widely
varying security posture across the subscriptions and there is the need
to align all of these subscriptions to a baseline secure standard.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="areas-of-concern">
    <title>Areas of Concern</title>
    <body>
      <p><xref href="#azure-security-centre" format="dita">Azure Security Center</xref>.</p>
      <p><xref href="#azure-identity-management-pim" format="dita">Azure Identity Management (PIM)</xref>.</p>
      <p><xref href="#azure-defender" format="dita">Azure Defender</xref>.</p>
      <p><xref href="#web-application-firewall" format="dita">Web Application Firewall</xref>.</p>
      <p><xref href="#monitor" format="dita">Monitor</xref>.</p>
      <p><xref href="#advisor" format="dita">Advisor</xref>.</p>
      <p><xref href="#regions" format="dita">Regions</xref>.</p>
      <p><xref href="#azure-storage-encryption" format="dita">Azure Storage Encryption</xref>.</p>
      <p><xref href="#key-vault" format="dita">Key Vault</xref>.</p>
      <p><xref href="#tagging" format="dita">Tagging</xref>.</p>
      <p>This section provides the definition of baseline controls and list of
templates that cover the baseline and governance guardrails that can be
deployed to new accounts.</p>
    </body>
    <topic id="azure-security-centre">
      <title>Azure Security Centre</title>
      <body>
        <p>Leverage Azure Security Centre to ensure workloads are secure and to
strengthen the security posture of the Azure estate. With continuous
assessment,
newly deployed resources are assessed and scored based on
recommendations against Azure Security Benchmark.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="azure-identity-management-pim">
      <title>Azure Identity Management (PIM)</title>
      <body>
        <p>Enabling PIM helps to mitigate the risk of excessive, unnecessary or
misused access rights by allowing administrators to discover, restrict
and monitor access to Azure Active Directory resources. Essentially, it
means that any user with access to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> data is only allowed
access to certain files or services, assigned by the global and
privileged role administrators.</p>
<p>Recommendations to improve overall Azure
security posture by monitoring at a minimum include:
<ul>
  <li>Block or secure risky user accounts.</li>
  <li>Require users to register for
    <xref href="multi-factor-authentication-mfa-guide.dita" format="dita">Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)</xref>.</li>
    <li>Enable the use of Just-in-Time access, so that administrators can create
privileged access for a specific timeframe.</li>
</ul></p>
        <p>See also:
          <ul>
            <li><xref href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/privileged-identity-management/pim-configure" format="html" scope="external">Azure AD Privileged Identity Management</xref>.</li>
            <li><xref href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/privileged-identity-management/pim-how-to-activate-role" format="html" scope="external">Activate my Azure AD roles in PIM</xref>.</li>
          </ul>
        </p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="azure-defender">
      <title>Azure Defender</title>
      <body>
        <p>By enabling Azure Defender and integrating with Azure Security Center, you
get an additional layer of security with which you can protect workloads
hosted in Azure. Defender provides protection from most advanced
threats, such as brute force, remote desktop protocol (RDP) or SQL
injection attacks.</p>
        <p> See also:
          <ul>
            <li><xref href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/security-center/security-center-wdatp?tabs=windows" format="html" scope="external">Enable Azure Defender</xref>.</li>
            <li><xref href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/security-center/defender-for-key-vault-introduction" format="html" scope="external">Enable Defender for Key Vault</xref>.</li>
            <li><xref href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/database/azure-defender-for-sql" format="html" scope="external">Enable Defender for SQL</xref>.</li>
          </ul></p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="web-application-firewall">
      <title>Web Application Firewall</title>
      <body>
        <p>Azure Web Application Firewall (WAF) on Azure Application Gateway is a
cloud-native service that provides centralised protection to web
applications from common cyber attacks. Azure WAF protects against
crawlers and scanners, SQL and command injection, cross-site scripting,
HTTP protocol violations, anomalies, and other common web attacks. A WAF
can support configurable request size limits and custom rules, exclusion
lists, and geo-filtration of traffic.</p>
        <p>See also:
          <ul>
            <li><xref href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/web-application-firewall/ag/ag-overview" format="html" scope="external">Azure WAF
deployment</xref>.</li>
          </ul></p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="monitor">
      <title>Monitor</title>
      <body>
        <p>Azure Monitor is the centralised console where you can create alerts
around various resources in your subscription and also manage them.
Alerting in Azure Monitor includes creating and managing alert rules,
and creating and managing action groups.</p>
        <p>See also:
          <ul>
            <li><xref href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-activity-log" format="html" scope="external">Create, view, and manage activity log alerts by using Azure Monitor</xref>.</li>
          </ul></p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="advisor">
      <title>Advisor</title>
      <body>
        <p>Azure Advisor takes the guesswork out of optimising your Azure
deployments. Specifically, providing highly-personalised recommendations
and best practices which are both actionable and proactive. Azure
Advisor helps you find ways to reduce costs related to Azure service
subscriptions, improve the performance, security, and availability of
resources that are in use.</p>
        <p>See also:
          <ul>
            <li><xref href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/advisor/advisor-overview" format="html" scope="external">Azure Advisor</xref>.</li>
          </ul></p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="regions">
      <title>Regions</title>
      <body>
        <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> does not use non-EU Azure regions,
          for strategic compliance and
performance reasons. For more information on regions, see <xref href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/conditional-access/howto-conditional-access-policy-location" format="html" scope="external">Conditional Access : Block by region</xref>.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="azure-storage-encryption">
      <title>Azure Storage Encryption</title>
      <body>
        <p>Azure Storage data encryption and decryption is transparently done using
256-bit AES. Azure Storage encryption is for all storage accounts,
including both Resource Manager and classic storage accounts. This
cannot be disabled, as the data is secured by default. All Azure Storage
resources, such as blobs, disks, files, queues, and tables, including all
object metadata, are also encrypted at rest.</p>
        <p>See also:
          <ul>
            <li><xref href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-service-encryption" format="html" scope="external">Azure Storage encryption for data at rest</xref>.</li>
          </ul></p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="key-vault">
      <title>Key Vault</title>
      <body>
        <p>Azure Key Vault protects encryption keys and secrets stored in Azure.
          The material might be certificates, connection strings, and passwords. However,
steps should be taken to maximize the security of your vaults and the
data stored within them while storing sensitive data, including enabling
Defender for Key Vault to safeguard your data.</p>
        <p>See also:
          <ul>
            <li><xref href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/key-vault/general/best-practices" format="html" scope="external">Best practices to use Key Vault</xref>.</li>
              <li><xref href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/security-center/defender-for-key-vault-introduction" format="html" scope="external">Defender for Key Vault</xref>.</li>
          </ul></p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="tagging">
      <title>Tagging</title>
      <body>
        <p>Assigning tags to Azure resources is essential in creating a
well-organised and transparent classification, and achieving significant
cloud cost optimisation. When implemented, this practice can provide a
consistent basis for applying policies across the organisation.</p>
        <p>See also:
          <ul>
            <li><xref href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/tag-policies" format="html" scope="external">Assign policy definitions for tag compliance</xref>.</li>
          </ul></p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
	<topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/contact-details"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
