<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cctv-policy">
  <title>CCTV policy</title>
  <body>
      <p>The policy compliments the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/>'s overall security
      policy.</p>
      <p>The CCTV Policy applies to all employees, contractors, partners and
          service providers, including those on co-located sites and sites
          owned by other public bodies. This also includes employees of
          other organisations who are based in, or work at,
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> occupied premises.</p>
      <p>Agencies and arm's length bodies (ALBs) are expected to comply with
          the corporate framework,
          but <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymay"/> establish their own arrangements
          tailored to operational needs and <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> supplement the framework with local
          policy or guidance for any business-specific risk.</p>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> has in place several CCTV surveillance systems installed
          within its core buildings. The policy details the purpose, usage
          and management of the CCTV systems, and the procedures to be
          followed to ensure the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> complies with relevant legislation and
          the current Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) Code of
          Practice.</p>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> has due regard to the Data Protection Act 2018, the UK
          General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR), the Freedom of
          Information Act 2000, the Protection of Freedoms Act 2012 and the
          Human Rights Act 1998. The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> also has due regard to the
          Surveillance Camera Code of Practice, issued under the Protection of
          Freedoms Act 2012, and the 12 guiding principles contained therein.</p>
      <p>The policy is based upon guidance issued by the Information
          Commissioner's Office (ICO).</p>
      <p>The policy and the procedures detailed apply to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> CCTV
          systems, including security guards' body worn cameras. CCTV images
          are monitored and recorded in strict accordance with this policy.</p>
      <p>The policy is applicable to all buildings owned or occupied by the
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> where <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> monitored CCTV is installed.</p>
      <p>The policy is available for download <xref href="/gs/MoJ_CCTV_Policy.docx" format="docx" scope="external" platform="html">here</xref><xref href="https://security-guidance.service.justice.gov.uk/gs/MoJ_CCTV_Policy.docx" format="docx" scope="external" platform="epub pdf">here</xref>.</p>
  </body>
    <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/contact-details"><title/></topic>
    <topic id="feedback" platform="html epub" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
