<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?path2rootmap-uri ./?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cjsm">
  <title>Criminal Justice Secure Mail</title>
  <body>
    <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> operates the CJSM service to enable those people working in the Justice system who do not have access to a suitable email service to exchange information in a safer way.</p>
    <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> does <b>not</b> require the use of CJSM where other suitably secure and efficient means can be used. It is considered a safe option to enable communication but it is only an option.</p>
  </body>
  <topic id="getting-access-to-cjsm">
    <title>Getting access to CJSM</title>
    <body>
      <p>To gain access to CJSM, an organisation must have an HMG sponsor, such as the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.
      This is to confirm the organisation's identity, and that they have active work in relation to the Justice system.</p>
      <p>The sponsorship process prevents organisations signing up to the service for non-justice related work.
      An 'onboarding checklist' helps ensure the relevance of the application to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> work.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="using-cjsm">
    <title>Using CJSM</title>
    <body>
      <p>The process for using CJSM to send secure emails depends on how the organisation
        is set up on the service.</p>
      <p>For example, in a 'web mail' configuration, the organisation uses a browser to login to a <xref href="http://www.cjsm.net/" format="html" scope="external">web mail account</xref>.
    They can then send and receive emails with a CJSM email address, in much the same way as most web email services work.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="government-secure-email-policy">
    <title>Government secure email policy</title>
    <body>
      <p>Email services that are materially aligned to the <xref href="https://www.gov.uk/guidance/securing-government-email" format="html" scope="external">UK government secure email policy</xref> are suitable for the movement of <codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph> data, including where the <codeph>SENSITIVE</codeph> handling caveat has been applied.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
</topic>
