<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="data-handling-and-information-sharing-guide">
  <title>Data Handling and Information Sharing Guide</title>
  <body>
    <p>This guide is designed to help protect <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/>
    information held on <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems,
    by providing guidance on how it should be handled and shared in a safe and
    secure manner.</p>
  </body>
  <topic id="overview">
    <title>Overview</title>
    <topic id="introduction">
      <title>Introduction</title>
      <body>
        <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/gov007"/> identifies mandatory
        requirements about the value and classification of information assets.
          To comply with these requirements,
          the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> needs to ensure that:
        <lq>Where information is shared for business purposes,
          departments and agencies <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
          ensure the receiving party understands
          the obligations and protects the assets appropriately.</lq>
        and
        <lq>All staff handling sensitive government assets are briefed about how
          legislation (particularly regarding Freedom of Information and Data
          Protection) specifically relates to their role,
          including the potential disciplinary or criminal penalties that may
          result from failure to comply with security policies.
          Appropriate management structures
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be in place to ensure
          the proper handling,
          control and (if appropriate) managed disclosure of sensitive
          assets.</lq></p>
        <p>The policy on data handling and information sharing is covered in the
          <xref href="information-classification-and-handling-policy.dita"
            format="dita" audience="audience-suppliers audience-tech">Information
            Classification and Handling Policy</xref><ph
            audience="audience-basic">Information Classification and Handling
            Policy</ph>,
            whilst this document sets out the
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> guidance sharing information
            within the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> and externally
            with other Government departments and 3rd parties.</p>
        <note>Other guidance might refer to information classified as being
          <codeph>IL3 REST*</codeph>.
        This is an older classification standard.
        In general,
        <codeph>IL3 REST*</codeph> is approximately equivalent to
        <codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph>
        with the <codeph>SENSITIVE</codeph> handling caveat,
        often written as <codeph>OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE</codeph>.
        While this approximate correspondance might be helpful,
        you should always review classification where older terms are used,
        to ensure that the correct current classification is used.</note>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="scope">
      <title>Scope</title>
      <body>
        <p>This document provides guidance on handling or sharing information
          stored on <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems,
          or exchanged electronically within the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>,
          or with external parties.</p>
        <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/catemailtext"/> can help you with more
        guidance on the handling of protectively marked data.</p>
        <p>This guide is split into three sections:
        <ul>
          <li><xref href="#handling-data-on-moj-it-systems"
            format="dita">Handling data</xref> on
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems.</li>
          <li><xref href="#information-sharing"
            format="dita">Information sharing</xref>.</li>
          <li><xref href="#reporting-data-loss"
            format="dita">Reporting data loss</xref>.</li>
        </ul></p>
        <note>This document provides guidance for handling and sharing of
          information and data up to and including <codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph> and
          <codeph>OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE</codeph>, or the older Impact Level (IL) 3.
          Where information attracts a high protective marking or IL,
          advice <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
          be sought from the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ostemailtext"/> and the
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/cisolong"/>.</note>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="demonstration-of-compliance" audience="audience-tech">
      <title>Demonstration of Compliance</title>
      <body>
        <p>The <xref
          href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/information-assurance-maturity-model-and-assessment-framework-gpg-40"
          format="html" scope="external">CESG Information Assurance Maturity
          Model (IAMM)</xref> sets out the minimum maturity level Government
          departments should attain.
          Safeguarding data is captured as a basic requirement in Level 1 and
          the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> will need to demonstrate
          compliance against this requirement.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="handling-data-on-moj-it-systems">
    <title>Handling data on <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems</title>
    <body>
      <p>This section covers how data <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
      be handled on <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
      IT systems, this includes both:
      <ul>
        <li>Data in transit.</li>
        <li>Data at rest.</li>
      </ul></p>
      <p>For the purposes of this guide, the term "sensitive" data or
      information refers to data or information which attracts a handling caveat
      of <codeph>SENSITIVE</codeph>.
      <ph audience="audience-tech"> See the <xref
        href="information-classification-and-handling-policy.dita"
        format="dita">Information Classification and Handling Policy</xref> for
        further details.</ph></p>
    </body>
    <topic id="ownership-of-information">
      <title>Ownership of information</title>
      <body>
        <p>All <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> information is assigned
        an individual who has overall responsibility for the various handling
        aspects including:
        <ul>
          <li>Registration.</li>
          <li>Labelling.</li>
          <li>Storage.</li>
          <li>Any transfers.</li>
          <li>Setting a retention period.</li>
          <li>Deleting, destroying or returning data and media.</li>
          <li>Ensuring that any applicable legal, regulatory or contractual
            obligations are adhered to.</li>
        </ul></p>
        <p>This individual is the Information Asset Owner (IAO).
          The IAO <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
          ensure that information for which they are responsible
          for is appropriately handled,
          and where there is a business requirement to share it with a 3rd party,
          that it is shared in a safe and secure manner.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="electronic-data-transfer-and-storage">
      <title>Electronic data transfer and storage</title>
      <body>
        <p>Data <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
        be stored only on managed accredited networks, with transfers
          onto remote access laptops or other mobile devices or media minimised.
          No sensitive data should be stored solely on non-networked devices or
          media unless specifically approved by the IAO.</p>
      </body>
      <topic id="data-in-transit">
        <title>Data in transit</title>
        <body>
          <p>The term "data in transit" covers all electronic moves or
          transfers of data from one IT system to another,
            where either the sender or the recipient system is an
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT system.
            This includes the electronic movement of data using either a
            system-to-system connection such as CJSE,
            or removable media such as a <xref href="#usb-mass-storage-device"
            format="dita">USB mass storage device</xref>.</p>
        </body>
        <topic id="secure-network-system-to-system-electronic-transfer">
          <title>Secure network (system-to-system electronic transfer)</title>
          <body>
            <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> preference for
            transferring data is to use a secure accredited government network
            whether that is a <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> owner
            network (e.g. DISC, ONMI, Quantum or MINT) or the Government Secure
            Intranet (GSi).</p>
            <p>As these networks can support data up to and including
              <codeph>OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE</codeph>,
              a base level of assurance is provided.
              However, consideration will need to be given to the following
              factors to ascertain if any additional security controls are
              required:
            <ul>
              <li>The amount of data being transferred.</li>
              <li>Frequency.</li>
              <li>Any "need-to-know" considerations.
              <ph audience="audience-suppliers audience-tech">
              See the <xref href="access-control-guide.dita" format="dita">Access
              Control Guide</xref> for further information.</ph></li>
            </ul></p>
            <p>Any additional controls
              <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be captured on the
              DMF (see <xref href="#data-movement-form-dmf" format="dita">Data Movement
                Form</xref>, where advice should be obtained from the
                <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
                <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/cisolong"/> when required.</p>
          </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="usb-mass-storage-device">
          <title>USB mass storage device</title>
          <body>
            <p>If using a secure network is not feasible, the next preferred
              option is to use an encrypted removable media,
              such as an approved USB mass storage device.</p>
            <p>For more information, see the <xref href="removable-media.dita"
              format="dita">Removable Media</xref> guidance.</p>
            <p>The type of device selected is normally dependant on the
              sensitivity of the data and the amount of data being transferred.
              Advice <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
              be sought from the Operational Security Team:
              <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ostemail"/>,
              or <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ciso"/> on the best option to
              use when completing the DMF (see
              <xref href="#data-movement-form-dmf" format="dita">Data Movement
                Form</xref>).</p>
          </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="optical-media">
          <title>Optical media</title>
          <body>
            <p>The use of optical media (i.e. CD/DVD) is not recommended for data
              transfer.</p>
          </body>
        </topic>
      </topic>
      <topic id="data-at-rest-on-moj-issued-laptops">
        <title>Data at rest on <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>-issued
        laptops</title>
        <body>
          <p>"Data at rest" is a term used to refer to all data in computer
          storage.
            This excludes data that is traversing a network,
            or temporarily residing in computer memory to be read or updated.
            The protection of data at rest is achieved by encrypting the hard
            disk.
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>-issued laptops use an approved
            whole disk encryption product.
            This allows data to be safely stored.</p>
        </body>
      </topic>
      <topic id="disposal-and-decommissioning">
        <title>Disposal and decommissioning</title>
        <body>
          <p>Sensitive data <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshallnot"/>
          be kept for longer than is needed.
            The IAO <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
            check for compliance,
            including any mandatory retention
            period.</p>
          <p>Physical media containing sensitive data
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be disposed of
            securely,
            even if that data is encrypted.
            The reason is that an attacker could potentially make unlimited
            attempts to crack the encryption used if the media comes into their
            possession.</p>
          <p>Further information on disposal and decommissioning can be found in
            the <xref href="secure-disposal-of-it-equipment.dita"
            format="dita">Secure Disposal of IT Equipment</xref> guidance.</p>
        </body>
      </topic>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="information-sharing">
    <title>Information sharing</title>
    <topic id="general-principles">
      <title>General principles</title>
      <body>
        <p>Where there is a business need to transfer sensitive data,
          it <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
          be appropriately secured or encrypted using an approved
          mechanism prior to electronic transmission or export to removable media
          devices.</p>
        <p>Transferring sensitive data with the appropriate security controls may
          be achieved by:
        <ul>
          <li>Transmission over a secure network that is accredited to carry such
            data, either in clear (where this has been formally approved by
            Information Assurance and the IAO),
          or encrypted.</li>
          <li>Transmission over an unprotected network, employing encryption of
            sufficient strength to mitigate any communication security risks identified.</li>
          <li>Physical transportation of storage media using encryption of sufficient
            strength to mitigate the security risks associated with the information
            being transferred in addition to the physical and procedural measures
            required to protect the media itself.</li>
        </ul></p>
        <note>Only the minimum amount of sensitive data necessary to meet the
          business requirement should be transferred and not the entire data set.</note>
        <p>The sender <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
        ensure that any data shared can be adequately secured
          by the recipient.
          The sensitivity of data <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
          never be downgraded in order to send it
          over inadequately protected channels,
          or to send it to a recipient who does not have an appropriate facility
          to protect it after it arrives.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="sharing-sensitive-information">
      <title>Sharing sensitive information</title>
      <body>
        <p><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> staff,
          including contractors and agency staff,
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
          make sure they observe the following measures when sharing
          sensitive information:
        <ul>
          <li>Check that all recipients are authorised and cleared to receive
            sensitive information before sending it to them.</li>
          <li>Ensure that the confidentiality of the sensitive information is
            protected during transit,
          for example by encrypting the data.</li>
          <li>Ensure copies of sensitive information are not kept beyond when
            they are actually required,
            for example by keeping information "just in case" it might be needed
            in the future.</li>
        </ul></p>
        <p>All <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> staff
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> avoid exposing
        sensitive data to unnecessary risks,
        in particular by observing all aspects of
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
        <xref href="acceptable-use-policy.dita" format="dita"
          audience="audience-tech">Acceptable Use Policy</xref>
          <xref href="acceptable-use.dita" format="dita"
            audience="audience-basic">Acceptable Use</xref>.</p>
        <p>Authorisation <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
        be sought from the IAO before sensitive
          information can be moved or shared with a 3rd party.
          The authorisation itself is captured within the
          <xref href="#data-movement-form-dmf" format="dita">Data Movement Form</xref>.
          the following sub-sections provide guidance on particular types of
          information sharing common across the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>,
          and to help you complete a DMF.</p>
      </body>
      <topic id="internally-within-the-moj">
        <title>Internally within the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/></title>
        <body>
          <p>Information marked up to and including
            <codeph>OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE</codeph> can be transferred in bulk within
            an <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT system or domain such
            as DOM1,
            without additional controls required to preserve the confidentiality
            of that information.</p>
          <p>Where information is transferred between
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems or domains,
            additional controls might be required to:
          <ul>
            <li>Ensure the information is routed correctly to preserve its
              confidentiality.</li>
            <li>Maintain the integrity of the data in transit to guard against
              inadvertent, accidental or deliberate modification.</li>
            <li>Ensure the exchange cannot be repudiated by either party,
              for example, be enabling proof of sending or proof of receipt.</li>
          </ul></p>
          <p>Information transferred between two
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems requires a
            completed and authorised
            <xref href="#data-movement-form-dmf" format="dita">Data Movement
              Form</xref> using one of the
              <xref href="#data-in-transit" format="dita">data in transit</xref>
              options.</p>
        </body>
      </topic>
      <topic id="information-sharing-with-another-hmg-department">
        <title>Information sharing with another HMG department</title>
        <body>
          <p>Information shared with another government department
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be
            transferred to an assured system.
            This means the system <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
            be assured to the same level as the data
            being transferred.
            The transfer <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
            take place using one of the
            <xref href="#data-in-transit" format="dita">data in transit</xref>
            options.
            The preference is for information to be transferred using a secure
            network.
            However, for low frequency bulk transfers of data,
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> approved removable media
            might be more suitable.
            A completed and authorised
            <xref href="#data-movement-form-dmf" format="dita">Data Movement
              Form</xref> is required.</p>
        </body>
      </topic>
      <topic id="information-sharing-with-external-3rd-parties">
        <title>Information sharing with external 3rd parties</title>
        <body>
          <p>Any transfer of sensitive data to a 3rd party,
            including sub-contractors or service providers,
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
            be authorised by the relevant IAO.
            An appropriate contract,
            <xref href="#data-movement-form-dmf" format="dita">Data Movement
              Form</xref>,
            and Non-disclosure Agreement (NDA)
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be in place prior to the
            transfer.</p>
            <p audience="audience-suppliers audience-tech">It might also be
              appropriate to establish a
              <xref href="security-aspect-letters.dita" format="dita">Security
                Aspects Letter (SAL)</xref> and Codes of Connection (CoCo)
                agreement.</p>
          <p>Where the information is <codeph>OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE</codeph>,
            it <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
            be transferred to an assured system,
            assured to the same level as the data being transferred,
            provided by the external 3rd party,
            using one of the <xref href="#data-in-transit" format="dita">data in
            transit</xref> options.</p>
          <p>Any transfer to a 3rd party
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be undertaken with appropriate
            security controls in place,
            using the guidance from this document,
            and seeking advice from Information Assurance and the
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ciso"/> as required.</p>
        </body>
        <topic id="sharing-across-an-unsecured-network">
          <title>Sharing across an unsecured network</title>
          <body>
            <p>Sensitive data <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
            be encrypted prior to being transmitted over
              an unsecured network such as the Internet.
              The encrypted data may then be sent via file transfer or as an
              email attachment.</p>
            <p>Ideally, both sender and recipient should check the integrity of
              data before and after transmission.
              This includes checking for malicious content,
              and for evidence of tampering during transit.</p>
          </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="using-commercial-encryption-products-for-low-sensitivity-information">
          <title>Using commercial encryption products for low sensitivity information</title>
          <body>
            <p>Where there is a business requirement to do so,
              sensitive information may be shared with a 3rd party using a
              commercial grade encryption product such as SecureZip.
              Further information on the use of SecureZip can be found in
              <xref href="#using-securezip" format="dita">Using SecureZIP</xref>.</p>
            <note>File encryption does not protect the name of the file.
              This could reveal clues as to the nature and importance of the
              encrypted data.
              Encrypted files should be given innocuous names for transmission.
              If the data is contained in numerous small files,
              these should be collected together into a single archive
              ("zip") file.
              This archive should then be encrypted.
              Each file or archive should be sent separately,
              rather than attaching multiple encrypted files to a single email.</note>
          </body>
        </topic>
      </topic>
      <topic id="sharing-information-above-official">
        <title>Sharing information above <codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph></title>
        <body>
          <p>Where there is a business requirement to share information classified
            higher than <codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph>,
            advice <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
            be sought from the Operational Security Team:
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ostemail"/>
            or <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ciso"/> prior to completing a
            <xref href="#data-movement-form-dmf" format="dita">Data Movement
              Form</xref>.</p>
        </body>
      </topic>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="data-movement-form-dmf">
    <title>Data Movement Form (DMF)</title>
    <body>
      <p>The Data Movement Form (DMF) is available <xref href="file:///./gs/data-movement-form.docx"
        format="docx" scope="external" platform="html">here</xref><xref href="https://security-guidance.service.justice.gov.uk/gs/data-movement-form.docx"
          format="docx" platform="epub pdf" scope="external">here</xref>.</p>
      <p>The purpose of the DMF is to ensure that the movement of information
        assets is secure,
        and in compliance with the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/gov007"/>.</p>
      <p>Failure to fulfil or comply with the controls and measures identified
        within the DMF will lead to unnecessary risk or exposure for the
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>,
        or the relevant Information Asset Owner (IAO),
        or the Senior Information Risk Owner (SIRO).</p>
      <p>A DMF <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be completed,
        and approval received from the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ostemailtext"/>,
        for the following scenarios:
        <ul>
          <li>Data is being moved or shared by using a physical storage device to
            transfer the information.
          An example is where you use a "memory stick",
          a USB drive,
          a storage array,
          or some other removable media.
        The DMF in this scenario focuses on the data being moved or shared.</li>
          <li>Data is being moved or shared by electronic (network) communication,
            where the movement is from an <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
            IT system to an external party.
          An example is using secure file transfer or approved email to transfer
        the information.
      The DMF in this scenario focuses on the data being moved or shared.</li>
          <li>An asset (a "data bearing asset") is being moved to,
          or transported by,
          an external party.
          This might be as a result of an office move,
          or because the asset is being decommissioned.
            The asset might contain or process <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
            information.
            Examples of data bearing assets include laptops,
            servers,
            multi-functional devices,
            and any other data bearing peripherals.
          The DMF in this scenario focuses on the asset being moved or
          transported,
          rather than the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> information
          that the asset might contain or process.</li>
        </ul></p>
        <p>A DMF <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
        be submitted to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ostemailtext"/>
        for information purposes,
        in the following scenarios:
          <ul>
            <li>Data is being moved or shared by electronic (network) communication,
              where the movement is entirely within or between
              <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems.</li>
            <li>Data is being moved in full compliance with the already-approved
              service design and operation specification and procedures.</li>
                  <li>An asset (a "data bearing asset") is being moved
                  but remains within the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
                  or its supplier-provided and
                  <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>-approved facilities at
                  all times.</li>
          </ul>
        <note>In the informational scenarios,
        a DMF is only expected the first time a data movement or sharing takes
        place.
        Subsequent,
        repeat instances of the movement or sharing,
        do not require a re-submission of the DMF.
        For example,
        when setting up a backup process as part of an approved service design,
        a DMF is created and submitted to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ostemailtext"/>
        for information purposes,
        but does not need to be re-created or re-submitted for each backup occurrence.
        If the implementation or process for the data movement or sharing changes,
        for example a new new backup technology or process is deployed,
        then a fresh informational DMF is required.</note>
      </p>
      <p>In any case of doubt,
        it is always advisable to complete a DMF
        and await approval or other feedback from the
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ostemailtext"/>.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="using-securezip">
    <title>Using SecureZIP</title>
    <body>
      <p>SecureZip is a compression and encryption product which can be used to
        encrypt sensitive data for use in removable media and email based
        information transfers.</p>
      <note>SecureZip can produce "self-extracting" encrypted files that are
      executable programs which are likely to be blocked by network firewalls or
      email content checkers.</note>
      <p>The general rules for transmitting a password to a recipient are:
      <ul>
        <li>Never transfer the password with the encrypted file, or even over the
          same communication channel.
        Use an alternative method, for example if an encrypted file is sent by
        email, communicate the password or key via SMS text message, letter, fax
        or phone call.</li>
        <li>Transfer the encrypted data file first.
        Only send the password or key after the recipient has confirmed receipt
        of the file.</li>
        <li>Avoid detailing the purpose of a password when it is sent.</li>
        <li>Avoid re-using passwords and demonstrate good security discipline to
          3rd parties by creating a completely new password or phrase for each
          transmission.</li>
      </ul></p>
      <p>More guidance on password best practices is
        <xref href="passwords.dita" format="dita">available</xref>.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="reporting-data-loss" conref="conrefs.dita#general-enquiries-including-theft-and-loss"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
