<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?path2rootmap-uri ./?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="data-security-and-privacy">
  <title>Data Security and Privacy</title>
  <body>
    <p>We believe that our technology must keep data safe and protect user privacy.</p>
    <p>Our digital projects contain important information. Serious data breaches might result if we fail to:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>protect information</p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>handle it correctly at all times</p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>dispose of it safely when it is no longer required</p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>Breaches might cause:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>harm to individuals</p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>financial loss to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/></p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>a loss of confidence in us as an organisation</p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>For personal data, the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and UK Data Protection Act (2018) apply. These make the consequences of data breaches very clear.</p>
    <p>To follow the data regulation/legislation, we <b>must</b> ensure that:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>we protect data to the best of our organisation’s capabilities</p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>we collect data only for described, lawful purposes</p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>we use data only for the described, lawful purposes</p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>
  <topic id="why-are-security-and-privacy-important">
    <title>Why are security and privacy important?</title>
    <body>
      <p>Breaches can have an adverse effect the relationship between citizen and government.</p>
      <p>Not only do we have a duty to protect citizens data, but the penalties for violations are also severe. Under the GDPR, serious infringements can result in fines of up to €20M.</p>
      <p>We must apply appropriate security and privacy protection to all the information we hold and process, at all times.</p>
      <p>We should treat all data as sensitive unless proven otherwise.</p>
      <p>All our work must follow this ethos.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="when-this-applies">
    <title>When this applies</title>
    <body>
      <p>This principle applies to <b>all</b> technology projects.</p>
      <p>While GDPR applies only to personal information, all <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> projects must have excellent data security and privacy properties. If they handle personal data, they must do so correctly. Projects must follow <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> guidelines unless exceptional and approved circumstances apply.</p>
      <p>You can design your product to handle personal information correctly. There are a small number of extra steps you will have to take. Remember that personal data includes anything which might identify an individual. Even online identifiers, such as cookies, are personal data.</p>
      <p>The <xref href="https://ico.org.uk" format="html" scope="external">Information Commissioner's Office (ICO)</xref> - the UK's independent regulatory office for data protection - has published <xref href="https://ico.org.uk/media/for-organisations/documents/1554/determining-what-is-personal-data.pdf" format="pdf" scope="external">guidance on how to determine what is personal data</xref>.</p>
      <p>A Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA, formerly commonly known as a Privacy Impact Assessment or PIA) is required for all projects. There are some <xref href="https://ico.org.uk/for-organisations/guide-to-data-protection/guide-to-the-general-data-protection-regulation-gdpr/exemptions/" format="html" scope="external">exceptions described by the ICO</xref>.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
</topic>
