<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?path2rootmap-uri ./?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="data-destruction-contract-clauses-short-format">
  <title>Short format clause</title>
  <body>
    <p>The current draft of the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> commodity short format data destruction clause.</p>
    <p><codeph>Highlighted</codeph> words indicate potential requirement for contextual change, requirement of definition and so on.</p>
  </body>
  <topic id="clause">
    <title>Clause</title>
    <body>
      <p>The <codeph>Supplier</codeph> shall return all <codeph>Authority</codeph> Data in a machine-readable non-proprietary format defined by the <codeph>Authority</codeph> within <codeph>30 (thirty)</codeph> calendar days of the end of the contract.</p>
      <p>The <codeph>Supplier</codeph> must also state, ensure and warrant the final calendar date by which any associated data management lifecycle system(s) will be complete, including the manual or automated data destruction at the end of such period. Such data management lifecycle(s) may include, but are not limited to, the <codeph>Supplier</codeph>'s supply chain and/or Data Processors, backup system(s) and/or disaster recovery and business continuity system(s). The <codeph>Authority</codeph> retains all applicable rights to instruct the <codeph>Supplier</codeph> to destroy all <codeph>Authority</codeph> Data according to the terms of this <codeph>[G-Cloud]</codeph> contract.</p>
      <p>The <codeph>Supplier</codeph> is required to ensure adequate and complete Data Destruction of <codeph>Authority</codeph> Data, including any relevant and associated non-proprietary <codeph>Supplier</codeph> Data or work product stemming from the <codeph>Buyer</codeph> Data that the <codeph>Supplier</codeph> has not been otherwise permitted to retain or use.</p>
      <p>Data Destruction must follow applicable guidance from the UK National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) and/or the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI-DSS) and/or DIN 66399.</p>
      <p>Data Destruction for electronic/magnetic storage <b>must</b> include, unless otherwise superseded by NCSC, PCI-DSS or specific <codeph>Authority</codeph> guidance: the revocation or otherwise destruction of decryption keys and/or mechanisms to render data inaccessible or otherwise void through the use of modern cryptography; AND/OR data overwriting methods consisting of at least 3 (three) complete overwrite passes of random data.</p>
      <p>Data Destruction for printed materials <b>must</b> include, unless otherwise superseded by NCSC or specific <codeph>Authority</codeph> guidance: paper cross-shredding methods to satisfy at least the DIN 66399 Level 4 standard with a maximum cross cut particle surface area 160 (one hundred and sixty) millimeters squared with a maximum strip width of 6 (six) millimeters.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
</topic>
