<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="data-destruction-instruction-and-confirmation-letter">
  <title>Instruction and Confirmation Letter</title>
  <body>
    <p>The current draft of a templated
      <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> data destruction letter,
      that may be issued by the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> to a
      supplier.
      The letter describes required actions and information,
      followed by a responsive declaration from the supplier.</p>
  </body>
  <topic id="letter-issued-by-moj">
    <title>Letter issued by <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/></title>
    <body>
      <p><b>Background</b></p>
      <p>For legislative,
        regulative,
        privacy and security purposes,
        it must be possible for Suppliers to decommission and delete
        (irreversibly "erase" or "destroy") data and warrant the same.
        Similarly,
        any storage media holding such data must be securely and comprehensively
        erased before reuse or disposal (such as at end-of-life).</p>
      <p>An example of a data destruction obligation is where a Supplier
        (acting as a "Data Processor",
        as defined by Data Protection legislation) working on behalf of,
        or supplying services to,
        the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> (the "Data Controller",
        as also defined by Data Protection legislation).
        The Data Processor,
        including any sub-processor instructed or otherwise involved in Data
        Processing on the Data Processor's behalf,
        must comply with instructions from the Data Controller regarding data
        irrespective of any commercial contract or promise such as a Data Subject
        exercising the "right to be forgotten".</p>
      <p>This document provides an acceptable data destruction baseline from the
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>,
        and associated declaration.
        When followed completely,
        this baseline for data destruction is considered sufficient to comply
        with data decommissioning and disposable tasks (and corresponding
        supplier assurances) for material classified as <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/official"/>
        under the <xref
        href="https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/government-security-classifications"
        format="html" scope="external">UK HMG Government Security Classifications
        Policy</xref> (including sensitive personal data or sensitive commercial
        data within the same).</p>
      <p><b>Data Lifecycle</b></p>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> informally acknowledge that
      automated systems involved in data management and associated lifecycles
      may not be capable of immediate decommissioning data on demand.
      Examples of such systems are data backup and disaster recovery solutions
      that have a defined and automated data cycle and retention system.</p>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> require positive
      confirmation of the final date by which these systems will have completed
      their data lifecycle tasks and data destruction will have been completed by.</p>
      <p>Where data cannot be erased immediately,
        there must be methods in place to limit and constrain access to the data
        until the data lifecycle is complete or manual intervention can be made
        and subsequent data destruction assured.</p>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> reserves all rights
      regarding instructions relating to data.
      This includes any need for immediate data destruction.</p>
      <p><b>Standards</b></p>
      <p>The following standards and guidelines are the <i>minimum</i> basis for
      data decommissioning or destruction.
      Follow and apply them as appropriate.
      There might also be extra steps specific to a data set or system.</p>
      <ul>
        <li>National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) guidance on end-user device
          reset procedures: <xref
          href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/end-user-device-guidance-factory-reset-and-reprovisioning"
          format="html" scope="external">https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/end-user-device-guidance-factory-reset-and-reprovisioning</xref>.</li>
        <li>NCSC guidance on secure sanitisation of storage media: <xref
          href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/secure-sanitisation-storage-media"
          format="html" scope="external">https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/secure-sanitisation-storage-media</xref>.</li>
        <li>NCSC Cloud Security Principle 2: Asset Protection and Resilience
          (Data Destruction): <xref
          href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/cloud-security-principle-2-asset-protection-and-resilience#sanitisation"
          format="html" scope="external">https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/cloud-security-principle-2-asset-protection-and-resilience#sanitisation</xref>.</li>
        <li>Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI-DSS) (Data
          Destruction): <xref href="https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org"
          format="html" scope="external">https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org</xref>.</li>
        <li>DIN: <xref href="http://www.din-66399.com/index.php/en/securitylevels"
          format="html" scope="external">http://www.din-66399.com/index.php/en/securitylevels</xref>.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>Data Destruction for electronic/magnetic storage <b>must</b> include,
      unless otherwise superseded by NCSC,
      PCI-DSS or specific <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> guidance:
      <ul>
        <li>the revocation or otherwise destruction of decryption keys and/or
          mechanisms to render data inaccessible or otherwise void through the
          use of modern cryptography; AND/OR</li>
        <li>data overwriting methods consisting of at least 3 (three) complete
          overwrite passes of random data.</li>
      </ul></p>
      <p>Data Destruction for printed materials <b>must</b> include,
      unless otherwise superseded by NCSC or specific <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> guidance:
      <ul>
        <li>paper cross-shredding methods to satisfy at least the DIN 66399 Level
          4 standard with a maximum cross cut particle surface area 160 (one
          hundred and sixty) millimeters squared with a maximum strip width of 6
          (six) millimeters</li>
      </ul></p>
      <p>The required outcome is to ensure that
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> data is inaccessible by any
        reasonable commercial and resourced means (such as commercially
        available data recovery services).</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="supplier-declaration">
    <title>Supplier declaration</title>
    <body>
      <p><i>Please sign the following declaration and return this letter to the
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>,
      keeping a copy for your own records.
      Should you have any queries,
      please contact the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> CISO via
      <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/securityemail"/>.</i></p>
      <p><i>Return electronically.
        Electronic signatures or otherwise positive confirmation are accepted.</i></p>
      <p>Chief Information Security Officer
Ministry of Justice
102 Petty France
Westminster,
London
SW1H 9AJ
<ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/securityemail"/></p>
      <p>Date: __________</p>
      <p>We hereby confirm that all Ministry of Justice data,
        including non-proprietary data generated through the provision of Service,
        has been suitably,
        appropriately,
        and irreversibly destroyed in its entirety and rendered permanently
        inaccessible and void.</p>
      <p>
        <codeph>Data backup,
          including disaster recovery systems,
          will automatically conduct appropriate data destruction as part of an
          automated data life cycle on or before the __________</codeph>
        <codeph>(Strike as applicable)</codeph>
      </p>
      <p>
        <codeph>Anonymised and/or non-Personal Data has been retained for
          statistical analytical purposes only.
          We warrant compliance with all applicable data protection and privacy
          legislation in this regard.</codeph>
        <codeph>(Strike as applicable)</codeph>
      </p>
      <p>Contract/project reference: __________</p>
      <p>For and on behalf of organisation: __________</p>
      <p>Name: __________</p>
      <p>Position: __________</p>
      <p>Date: __________</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
