<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="long-format-appendix">
  <title>Long format appendix</title>
  <body>
    <p>The current draft of the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> commodity long format data destruction appendix. The appendix is a dependency of the long format clause itself.</p>
    <p><codeph>Highlighted</codeph> words indicate potential requirement for contextual change, requirement of definition and so on.</p>
  </body>
  <topic id="appendix">
    <title>Appendix</title>
    <body>
      <p>The following standards and guidelines are the <i>minimum</i> basis for data decommissioning or destruction. Follow and apply them as appropriate. There might also be extra steps specific to a data set or system.</p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <p>National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) guidance on end-user device reset procedures: <xref href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/end-user-device-guidance-factory-reset-and-reprovisioning" format="html" scope="external">https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/end-user-device-guidance-factory-reset-and-reprovisioning</xref></p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>NCSC guidance on secure sanitisation of storage media: <xref href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/secure-sanitisation-storage-media" format="html" scope="external">https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/secure-sanitisation-storage-media</xref></p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>NCSC Cloud Security Principle 2: Asset Protection and Resilience (Data Destruction): <xref href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/cloud-security-principle-2-asset-protection-and-resilience#sanitisation" format="html" scope="external">https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/cloud-security-principle-2-asset-protection-and-resilience#sanitisation</xref></p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (Data Destruction): <xref href="https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org" format="html" scope="external">https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org</xref></p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>DIN: <xref href="https://din66399.eu/" format="html" scope="external">https://din66399.eu/</xref></p>
        </li>
      </ul>
      <p>Data Destruction for electronic/magnetic storage <b>must</b> include, unless otherwise superseded by NCSC, PCI-DSS or specific <codeph>Authority</codeph> guidance:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <p>the revocation or otherwise destruction of decryption keys and/or mechanisms to render data inaccessible or otherwise void through the use of modern cryptography; AND/OR</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>data overwriting methods consisting of at least 3 (three) complete overwrite passes of random data.</p>
        </li>
      </ul>
      <p>Data Destruction for printed materials <b>must</b> include, unless otherwise superseded by NCSC or specific <codeph>Authority</codeph> guidance:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <p>paper cross-shredding methods to satisfy at least the DIN 66399 Level 4 standard with a maximum cross cut particle surface area 160 (one hundred and sixty) millimetres squared with a maximum strip width of 6 (six) millimetres</p>
        </li>
      </ul>
      <p>The required outcome is to ensure that <codeph>Authority</codeph> data is inaccessible by any reasonable commercial and resourced means (such as commercially available data recovery services).</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  
</topic>
