<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="Descriptor-guidancee">
<title>Descriptor guidance</title>
   <topic id="What-are-descriptors">
    <title>What are descriptors</title>
    <body>
     <p>Descriptors are labels applied to information to easily identify and manage the categories of data that carry special sensitivities or require additional access restrictions. They help in quickly determining how information should be handled and by whom.</p>
    </body>
   </topic>
   <topic id="When-to-use-descriptors">
    <title>When to use descriptors</title>
     <body>
      <p>Descriptors are not additional classifications and do not need to be applied to every document you work with. Their use depends on the nature of the document, who requires access to it, and the sensitivity of the information contained within.</p>
    </body>
   </topic>
   <topic id="How-to-use-descriptors">
    <title>How to use descriptors</title>
    <body>
     <p>To apply a descriptor, you should place it after the document’s classification and handling instructions, if any. For example:
     CLASSIFICATION HANDLING INSTRUCTION – DESCRIPTOR
     e.g. SECRET – RECIPIENTS ONLY – COMMERCIAL</p>
    </body>
   </topic>
   <topic id="Different-types-of-descriptors">
    <title>Different types of descriptors</title>
    <body>
     <p>This section provides the several different descriptors, definitions, and examples of when you might use them.</p>
     <p><b>Descriptor: PERSONAL DATA</b></p>
     <p><b>Definition</b>: Information that directly or indirectly identifies a living individual. Personal data is subject to legal obligations under the UK GDPR and the Data Protection Act 2018, particularly concerning its processing and the handling of special category data. For employee related data where individuals are not identifiable, use the HR/MANAGEMENT descriptor instead.</p>
     <p><b>Exmaple</b>: A member of the public applies for a pardon through the MoJ, providing extensive personal documentation including past criminal records, employment history, and character references. This application contains sensitive personal information that must be handled with strict confidentiality to ensure compliance with data protection laws and to maintain the applicant’s privacy.</p>
     <p><b>Example</b>: A complaint lodged by an individual regarding mishandling of their personal data during a security clearance process, containing sensitive personal details, is forwarded to the data protection team.</p>
    </body>
   </topic>
   <topic id="Descriptor:-HR-/-MANAGEMENT">
    <title>Descriptor: HR / MANAGEMENT</title>
     <body>
      <p><b>Definition</b>: This category covers information about individual staff members, such as employment contracts and performance assessments. Processing this personal data requires adherence to regulations and may need additional security measures, including staff consent.</p>
      <p><b>Example</b>: An internal investigation is launched into allegations of misconduct within a department. The investigation involves confidential interviews with staff and a review of internal communications, all of which are highly sensitive and restricted to the investigative team and senior management to ensure impartiality and protect the privacy of all involved.</p>
      <p><b>Exmaple</b>: A performance evaluation is conducted for an employee, which includes a detailed assessment from supervisors, peer reviews, and self-assessment documents. This evaluation contains sensitive personal and performance-related information, and access to the completed report is strictly limited to the individual, their direct managers, and specific HR personnel to ensure confidentiality and proper handling in line with data protection guidelines.</p>
     </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="Descriptor:-LEGAL-PROFESSIONAL-PRIVILEGE-(LPP)">
     <title>Descriptor: LEGAL PROFESSIONAL PRIVILEGE (LPP)</title>
      <body>
       <p><b>Definition</b>: This descriptor is used for information exchanged in the context of confidential communications, either between:
       <ul>
        <li>a client (e.g. business area) and the client’s lawyer (e.g. a member of the Legal Directorate or external counsel)</li>
        <li>a client or client’s lawyer and a third party which relates mostly pending or current litigation at the time of the communication</li></p>
       <p><b>Example</b>: A minister is developing a new policy potentially leading to legislation and emails Ministry of Justice (MoJ) Lawyers for legal advice.</p>
       <p><b>Exmaple</b>: During the drafting of new legislation affecting juvenile detention centres, an MoJ policy advisor confidentially consults with in-house legal counsel to discuss the potential legal implications and ensure compliance with existing laws, intending these communications to remain privileged.</p>
     </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="Descriptor:-LEGAL">
     <title>Descriptor: LEGAL</title>
      <body>
       <p><b>Definition</b>: Pertains to information about civil or active/potential criminal proceedings.</p>
       <p>Use the LPP descriptor instead if the document includes protected legal advice.</p>
       <p><b>Example</b>: The MoJ receives a detailed report concerning allegations of human rights violations in a government-operated facility. This report is forwarded to the MoJ legal team to assess potential breaches of national and international law and to develop a strategy for addressing possible legal actions and inquiries.</p>
       <p><b>Example</b>: The MoJ is notified of an impending lawsuit alleging discrimination in hiring practices within a specific department. This notification is promptly sent to the department’s legal team to prepare for the legal proceedings and strategise the defence.<p>
      </body>
     </topic>
     <topic id="Descriptor:-MARKET-SENSITIVE">
      <title>Descriptor: MARKET SENSITIVE</title>
       <body>
        <p><b>Definition</b>: Non-public information that could significantly impact financial markets, such as influencing market prices.</p>
        <p><b>Example</b>: A strategic review of prison privatisation plans is conducted, assessing the feasibility and financial implications of transferring more facilities to private management. This sensitive information, if disclosed prematurely, could significantly impact the share prices of publicly listed security and facility management companies involved in prison services.</p>
        <p><b>Example</b>: An internal report discusses the potential impact of proposed changes to legal aid funding. This report, which could influence several private sector legal services providers, is classified as market sensitive until it is officially released to the public.</p>
      </body>
     </topic>
     <topic id="Descriptor: COMMERCIAL">
      <title>Descriptor: COMMERCIAL</title>
       <body>
        <p><b>Definition</b>: Information that could be commercially damaging to the MoJ or a commercial partner if improperly accessed, or which is under commercial confidentiality agreements.</p>
        <p>Use the MARKET SENSITIVE descriptor if the information could impact financial markets.</p>
        <p><b>Example</b>: The MoJ is in the process of selecting a contractor to build a new prison facility. The discussions include sensitive financial bids and capability assessments from various construction firms, which are critical to ensuring a competitive tender process and are not disclosed publicly until the decision is finalised.</p>
        <p><b>Example</b>: An MoJ official is involved in negotiations with a software company to develop a new case management system for civil courts. The negotiations cover proprietary software features and pricing, details of which could give competitors unfair advantages if leaked before the contract is secured.</p>


      

