<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="email-authentication-guide">
  <title>Email Authentication Guide</title>
  <body/>
  <topic id="introduction">
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <body>
      <p>This guide identifies the security controls that must be implemented at
        the domain layer to verify sender's domains and mitigate spoofing
        attacks.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="sender-policy-framework">
    <title>Sender Policy Framework</title>
    <body>
      <p><xref href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sender_Policy_Framework"
        scope="external" format="html">Sender Policy Framework (SPF)</xref>
        should be implemented for email domains.
        SPF enables organisations to publish a Domain Name System (DNS) record
        of all the domains and IP addresses which are trusted for sending and
        receiving email.</p>
      <p>SPF is verified by checking a specific <codeph>TXT</codeph> DNS entry
      in emails.
      Emails are flagged if they are not sent from the domains and IP addresses
      published in the DNS record.</p>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> enforces SPF controls
      to help users spot spoofed or unknown email addresses.
      Suspicious emails are sent directly to the <q>spam</q> folder,
      instead of to the user's inbox.</p>
      <p>When creating an SPF record in the public DNS,
        use all the IP addresses or address ranges from which an email might be
        sent.
        You can use both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses.
        An SPF record could look like the following:
      <ul>
        <li>An example of a basic SPF record to be added to an organisation's
          public DNS,
          where it uses Google,
          might be:
          <lq><codeph>v=spf1 include:spf.google.com ~all</codeph></lq></li>
        <li>An SPF record including Google's IP ranges and a sending service
          with an IP address range,
          might be:
          <lq><codeph>v=spf1 include:spf.google.com ip4:80.88.21.0/20 ~all</codeph></lq></li>
        <li>An example of a more complex record,
          with additional services and some dedicated IP addresses,
          might be:
          <lq><codeph>v=spf1 include:spf.protection.outlook.com include:mail.zendesk.com ip6:2001:db8::/32 ip4:203.0.113.6 ~all</codeph></lq></li>
      </ul></p>
      <p>In the previous examples,
        <codeph>v=spf1</codeph> is an SPF record,
        <codeph>include:</codeph> means email can only come from these sources,
        <codeph>~all</codeph> considers any other email as a soft fail,
        and <codeph>–all</codeph> considers any other email as a hard fail.
        <note>A hard fail should be used when a domain is being forged by
          spam.</note></p>
      <p>To correct SPF failures,
        add the sending systems you use to your SPF record.
        Do this using either the IP address or by reference to another SPF record.
        These previous examples are unique,
        so check the actual domain or IP range of the email sending service.
        Also check with the supplier on setting up SPF records.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="domain-keys-identified-mail">
    <title>Domain Keys Identified Mail</title>
    <body>
      <p><xref href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DomainKeys_Identified_Mail"
        scope="external" format="html">Domain Keys Identified Mail (DKIM)</xref>
        should be enabled for all <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> email
        domains.
        DKIM enables automatic filtering or rejection of emails that fail DKIM
        verification.</p>
      <ul>
        <li>DKIM can verify a sender domain by looking up the sender's public
          key published in the DNS.
          You can then determine if an email has been tampered with during
          transit,
          for example during a <q>Man-In-The-Middle</q> attack.</li>
        <li>A valid digital signature provides assurance that the hashed content
          has not been modified since the signature was affixed to the email
          message.</li>
        <li>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> enforces DKIM controls
        to help users identify communication tampering attacks
         by sending the messages directly to the spam folder,
         instead of to the user Inbox.</li>
        <li>DKIM <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be used across
        the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>,
        including by executive agencies and ALBs.</li>
      </ul>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="domain-based-message-authentication-reporting-and-conformance">
    <title>Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting and Conformance</title>
    <body>
      <p><xref href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DMARC" scope="external"
        format="html">Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting and
        Conformance (DMARC)</xref> is an email authentication standard that must
        be used with SPF and DKIM to:
        <ul>
          <li>Confirm a sender's email addresses.</li>
          <li>Flag any emails that have been spoofed or otherwise tampered with.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>By using DMARC:
      <ul>
        <li><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> emails are more likely to
        reach the recipients' inboxes (suppliers, partners and public users),
        rather than getting filtered out as spam.</li>
        <li>There is full visibility of all the domains and IP addresses used to
          send emails.</li>
        <li>There are warnings if a mail sender fails SPF,
          DKIM,
          or DMARC authentication.</li>
        <li>It is possible to detect any unauthorised use of the domain.</li>
      </ul></p>
      <p>When developing a new service with email sending or receiving capability,
        a DMARC policy <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be published.
        The policy <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be set to the
        highest level:
        <codeph>'p=reject'</codeph>.
        This policy indicates that mailbox providers
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> reject all emails that
        fail DMARC.</p>
      <p>If the DMARC policy cannot be set to <codeph>'p=reject'</codeph>,
      publish a record using <codeph>'p=none'</codeph> to override the default
      DMARC policy.
      This means that the mailbox provider won't take any actions with emails
      that fail DMARC.</p>
      <p>Publish a DMARC record to the DNS for the domain to tell the email
        receiver how to handle emails that fail DMARC authentication,
        and where to send DMARC reports.</p>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2"/>
          <colspec colname="col3" colnum="3"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">DMARC Profiles</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Benefits</entry>
              <entry colname="col3">Risks</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1"><codeph>p=none</codeph></entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Allows you to review incoming email to
                determine legitimacy while implementing DMARC for the first
                time.</entry>
              <entry colname="col3">Easier for phishers and spammers to take
                advantage.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1"><codeph>P=quarantine</codeph></entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Malicious email is filtered out.
              Recipients decide what they want to do with quarantined email.</entry>
              <entry colname="col3">Legitimate emails might be missed if
                incorrectly quarantined and filtered</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1"><codeph>P=reject</codeph></entry>
              <entry colname="col2">All malicious email is stopped.
              The intended recipient of malicious email is not aware of the
              email,
              as it won't be sent to a spam or quarantine folder.</entry>
              <entry colname="col3">Legitimate emails might fail authentication
                and be rejected without the recipient being aware.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <p><codeph>DMARC TXT</codeph> records
      <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be available for
      <xref href="https://www.dmarcanalyzer.com/how-to-create-a-dmarc-record/"
        format="html" scope="external">creation</xref> or iteration across the
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.
        This is to comply with the GOV.UK DMARC configuration <xref
        href="https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/email-security-standards/domain-based-message-authentication-reporting-and-conformance-dmarc"
        format="html" scope="external">guide page</xref>.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="making-changes-to-the-domain-name-system">
    <title>Making changes to the domain name system</title>
    <body>
      <p>Changes <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be made to DNS
      records when implementing SPF,
      DKIM,
      and DMARC controls.
      When requesting changes,
      specific information <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be
      included for each record.
      If given the option,
      set a short time to live (TTL) in DNS records to monitor changes quickly,
      and fix any issues.</p>
    </body>
    <topic id="dmarc-example">
      <title>DMARC example</title>
      <body>
      <p>Record type: <codeph>TXT</codeph></p>
      <p>Host or record name: <codeph>dmarc</codeph></p>
      <p>Record value: <codeph>v=DMARC1;p=none;fo=1;rua=mailto:dmarc-rua@dmarc.service.gov.uk,mailto:dmarc@&lt;yourdomain.gov.uk&gt;</codeph></p>
      <p>Create the email address and put your domain in place of <codeph>&lt;yourdomain.gov.uk&gt;</codeph>.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="spf-example">
    <title>SPF example</title>
      <body>
      <p>Record type: <codeph>TXT</codeph> or <codeph>CNAME</codeph> (check
      guidance for your service on which to use).</p>
      <p>Host or record name: <codeph>@</codeph> (if required)</p>
      <p>Record value: <codeph>v=spf1 include:&lt;your email server domain&gt;
        ip4:&lt;your email service IP&gt; ~all</codeph></p>
      <p>Put your email server domains or email sending IP ranges in place
        of the <codeph>&lt; &gt;</codeph> sections.
        You do not need to include both.
        In many cases you might only need <codeph>include:</codeph>.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="dkim-example">
    <title>DKIM example</title>
      <body>
      <p>Record type: <codeph>TXT</codeph></p>
      <p>Host or record name: <codeph>selector.<i>domainkey</i></codeph></p>
      <p>Put your selector,
        or the selector provided by your service provider,
        in place of selector in the host or record name.</p>
      <p>Record value: <codeph>v=DKIM1; k=rsa; p=&lt;your DKIM key&gt;</codeph></p>
      <p>Paste your DKIM key from your key generator in place of
        <codeph>&lt;your DKIM key&gt;</codeph>.</p>
      <p>Some providers might use a <codeph>CNAME</codeph> record instead of a
      <codeph>TXT</codeph> record.
      Follow the guidance from your provider.</p>
      <p>GSI is no longer used,
        but the following addresses still route through to
        <codeph>@justice.gov.uk</codeph>.
        The following table shows the authorised users you can contact to
        request DNS changes:
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Record Type</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Contact</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1"><codeph>*.gsi.gov.uk</codeph>, <codeph>*.gsx.gov.uk</codeph>, <codeph>*.gse.gov.uk</codeph>, <codeph>*.gcsx.gov.uk</codeph>, <codeph>*.x.gsi.gov.uk</codeph></entry>
              <entry colname="col2"><xref href="https://emailassurance.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/requests/new?ticket_form_id=130185" format="html" scope="external">Vodafone Contact GDS</xref></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1"><codeph>*.gov.uk</codeph> or any other domains</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Your registrar, DNS provider or Internal System Admin</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1"><codeph>*.cjsm.net</codeph></entry>
              <entry colname="col2"><xref href="mailto:cjsm.helpdesk@egress.com" format="email" scope="external">Egress</xref></entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
</topic>
<topic id="dns-contact-details">
  <title>DNS contact details</title>
  <body>
    <p>For DNS changes and associated advice,
      contact the Platforms and Architecture team:
      <xref href="mailto:domains@digital.justice.gov.uk" format="email" scope="external">domains@digital.justice.gov.uk</xref></p>
  </body>
</topic>
<topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#contact-details"><title/></topic>
<topic id="feedback" platform="html epub" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
