<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="equipment-reassignment-guide">
  <title>Equipment Reassignment Guide</title>
  <body/>
  <topic id="introduction">
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <body>
      <p>This guide describes how to reassign equipment.
      It applies to laptops,
      mobile phones or other <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> issued
      equipment.
      Reassignment is from one user to another.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="who-is-this-for">
    <title>Who is this for?</title>
    <body>
      <p>This guidance applies to:</p>
      <ol>
        <li><b>Technical users</b>: these are in-house
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Digital and Technology staff.
        They are are responsible for implementing equipment controls.
        The controls apply throughout technical design,
        development,
        system integration,
        and operation.
        This includes DevOps,
        Software Developers,
        Technical Architects,
        and Service Owners.
        It also includes Incident Managers from the Event,
        Problem,
        Incident,
        CSI,
        and Knowledge (EPICK) Team.</li>
        <li><b>Service Providers</b>: defined as any other
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> business group,
        agency,
        contractor,
        IT supplier,
        or partner who in any way designs,
        develops,
        or supplies services (including processing,
        transmitting,
        and storing data) for,
        or on behalf of the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</li>
        <li><b>General users</b>: all other staff working for the
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</li>
      </ol>
      <p>"All <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> users" means
      General users,
      Technical users,
      and Service Providers.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="returning-equipment">
    <title>Returning Equipment</title>
    <body>
      <p>When a project completes,
        or a colleague leaves or moves to a new role,
        equipment no longer required <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/>
        be returned.
        The Line Manager (LM) is responsible for using the Service Catalogue to
        request a return of the item.
        The equipment might then become available for use by other employees.
        It might not be cost-effective to consider reusing or reassigning the
        equipment.
        Possible reasons include:
      <ul>
        <li>Older technology that might have been heavily used.</li>
        <li>The likelihood of operating problems and failures.</li>
        <li>Lack of support,
          updates,
          or patches.</li>
        <li>Slower performance.</li>
      </ul></p>
      <p>As a result,
        it might be preferable to use a new machine,
        rather than repurposing a reassigned device.
        The decision depends on the expected use of the reassigned device.</p>
      <p>The LM is responsible for ensuring a review of the equipment.
        This is to ensure that sensitive data <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshallnot"/>
        be lost by erasing the contents of the device.
        This task <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policycan"/> be delegated to
        the team member most familiar with the data.
        The LM remains responsible.
        Any sensitive data identified <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
        be copied and relocated to a secure location.
        This can be the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Teams facility
        or to Sharepoint.
        This <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> happen before the
        device is made ready for reuse or destroyed.</p>
      <p>Any IT equipment which is no longer needed,
        or has reached its "end of life"
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> have its data
        securely deleted and confirmed to be unreadable and unrecoverable before
        destruction,
        redistribution,
        or reuse of the equipment.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="equipment-reassignment">
    <title>Equipment Reassignment</title>
    <body>
      <p>Equipment <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policycannot"/> be passed
      from one user to another without being formally reassigned.</p>
      <p>Equipment <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be completely
      "cleaned" to an "as-new" state before it is reused or reassigned.
      This means that all storage media in the device
      <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be fully erased.
      A sufficiently secure method for "wiping" equipment
      <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be used.
      Deleting visible files,
      emptying files from the "Recycle Bin" of a computer,
      or reformatting a device are not considered sufficiently secure methods for
      wiping equipment.
      The reason is that data recovery software might be used by a new owner to
      "undelete" files or "unformat" a device.</p>
      <p>To erase data securely,
        use appropriate "data-shredding" tools for the media being erased.
        Typically,
        these tools do not simply delete data,
        they overwrite it multiple times.
        The overwriting erases all traces of the data,
        making it almost impossible for any retrieval.
        Another option is to re-encrypt the device using a different password,
        then delete the data to free up space.</p>
      <p>Equipment reassignment <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/>
      be recorded by the LM in the appropriate asset register.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="equipment-that-cannot-be-reused">
    <title>Equipment that cannot be reused</title>
    <body>
      <p>If IT assets are no longer needed by the
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>,
        and cannot be securely wiped,
        then the equipment <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymight"/>
        need to be destroyed physically.
        More information can be found at <xref href="secure-disposal-of-it-equipment.dita"
          format="dita" platform="github">Secure disposal of IT equipment</xref>
        <xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/guidance/security/it-computer-security/secure-disposal-of-it-equipment/"
          format="html" scope="external" platform="intranet">Secure disposal of IT equipment</xref></p>
      <p>Regrettably,
        for security reasons,
        redundant IT equipment <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshouldnot"/>
        be donated to charities, schools, or similar organisations.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="leased-equipment">
    <title>Leased equipment</title>
    <body>
      <p>Managers <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> ensure that
      any equipment that is leased has a data destruction clause written into
      the contract.
      Under such an arrangement,
      the supplier <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> ensure that
      data is wiped when it is returned.
      <ph audience="audience-suppliers audience-tech">For an example of a data
        destruction clause,
        refer to the Modern Security Clause for formal
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> promises (Contracts).
        This is available from the
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/securityemailtext"/>.</ph></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/contact-details"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
