<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="forensic-principles">
  <title>Forensic Principles</title>
  <topic id="overview">
    <title>Overview</title>
    <body>
      <p>The <xref href="forensic-readiness-policy.dita" format="dita">Forensic Readiness Policy</xref>
        states the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> requirements on the need for IT forensics.
        Each <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT system or IT domain <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> have,
        or be explicitly covered by,
        a Forensic Readiness Plan.
        The policy also outlines four principles which must be followed.
        For reference, these are:
        <ul>
          <li>Preservation of Evidence - the forensic investigation process <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> preserve the integrity of original evidence by providing sufficient security,
            legal advice and procedural measures to ensure that evidential requirements are met.
            Any processes applied to copies of evidence must be repeatable and achieve the same results.</li>
          <li>Aptitude for task - any task in a forensic investigation <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policywill"/> be conducted by a person assessed to be suitably trained and competent to carry out that task.</li>
          <li>Documented Methodology – all investigations <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policywill"/> follow the documented methodology outlined in the forensic readiness plan, with an audit trail of all processes applied to evidence.
            A chain of evidence <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policywill"/> be created and preserved demonstrating where evidence has been stored and whose care the evidence has been in from point of capture until presentation.</li>
          <li>Conformance - investigations <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policywill"/> be conducted in a manner which respects <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> policies and assumes full cooperation from all internal and external staff members.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </body>
    </topic>
  <topic id="people-and-resources">
    <title>People and resources</title>
    <body>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Operational Security Team (OST) is responsible for the IT Security Incident Management Process and charged with responding to all IT security incidents.
      The team can be contacted by email: <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/securityemail"/>.</p>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> intends to use a mix of internal and external resources to ensure that its forensic investigation capability can quickly and efficiently react to potentially incidents thereby minimising disruption to business.</p>
      <note>The <xref href="forensic-readiness-policy.dita" format="dita">Forensic Readiness Policy</xref> states that each forensic investigation must have a named Forensic Investigation Owner.</note>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="incident-management-and-forensic-investigation-process">
    <title>Incident management and forensic investigation process</title>
    <body>
      <p>The <xref href="it-incident-management-policy.dita" format="dita">IT Incident Management Policy</xref> sets out the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> requirement for incident management where forensics investigation form part of the incident management process.
        As such, the forensic incident management process is an extension of the overall incident management process.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#contact-details"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
