<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="forensic-readiness-guide">
  <title>Forensic Readiness Guide</title>
  <topic id="about-this-document">
    <title>About this document</title>
    <body>
      <p>This document is the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> IT Security Forensic Readiness Guide. It is designed to help protect <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems by providing guidance on how to develop a Forensic Readiness Plan.</p>
    </body>
    <topic id="how-to-use-this-document">
      <title>How to use this document</title>
      <body>
        <p>The purpose of this guide is to provide a consistent approach to forensic readiness across all <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems and designed to supplement the guidance provided in <xref href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/forensic-readiness-good-practice-guide-18" format="html" scope="external">CESG GPG No.18</xref>.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="overview">
    <title>Overview</title>
    <body/>
    <topic id="introduction">
      <title>Introduction</title>
      <body>
        <p><xref href="https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/security-policy-framework" format="html" scope="external">HMG Security Policy Framework (SPF)</xref> Mandatory Requirement (MR) 9 states that:</p>
        <lq>Departments and Agencies <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> put in place an appropriate range of technical controls for all IT systems, proportionate to the value, importance and sensitivity of the information held and the requirements of any interconnected systems.</lq>
        <p>To comply with this requirement, the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/>:</p>
        <lq>Have a forensic readiness policy that <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policywill"/> maximise the ability to preserve and analyse data generated by an IT system that may be required for legal and management purposes</lq>
        <p>The policy on forensic readiness is covered in the <xref href="forensic-readiness-policy.dita" format="dita">Forensic Readiness Policy</xref> document.
        This document sets out the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> guidance on implementing that policy and developing a Forensic Readiness Plan.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="scope">
      <title>Scope</title>
      <body>
        <p>This document is intended to provide guidance on the development of a Forensic Readiness Plan for <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT Systems, including IT systems hosted by third party suppliers on behalf of the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</p>
        <p>This guide is designed to supplement <xref href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/forensic-readiness-good-practice-guide-18" format="html" scope="external">CESG GPG No.18</xref> and <xref href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/forensic-readiness-planning-implementation-guide-18" format="html" scope="external">CESG Implementation Guide No. 18</xref>, and is an extension of the <xref href="incident-management-plan-and-process-guide.dita" format="dita">Incident Management Plan and Process Guide</xref>.</p>
        <p>Readers of this guide who are developing a Forensic Readiness Plan <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> ensure it complies with <xref href="forensic-readiness-policy.dita" format="dita">Forensic Readiness Policy</xref> document and is written in accordance with <xref href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/forensic-readiness-good-practice-guide-18" format="html" scope="external">CESG GPG No.18</xref>.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="demonstration-of-compliance">
      <title>Demonstration of Compliance</title>
      <body>
        <p>The <xref href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/information-assurance-maturity-model-and-assessment-framework-gpg-40" format="html" scope="external">CESG Information Assurance Maturity Model (IAMM)</xref> sets out the minimum maturity level Government departments should attain. Forensic readiness is captured as a basic requirement in Level 1 and the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> need to demonstrate compliance against this requirement.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="outline">
      <title>Outline</title>
      <body>
        <p>This document is split into three sections:</p>
        <ul>
          <li>Definition of capability and requirement – this section provides guidance on the type of forensic capability which should be provided  and the high level requirements associated with delivering a forensic capability which can support the implementation of a Forensic Readiness Plan;</li>
          <li>Developing a Forensic Readiness Plan – this section provides guidance on developing a Forensic Readiness Plan for an IT system or IT domain.</li>
          <li>Staff, education, training and awareness – this section provides guidance on what staff training and awareness should be made available in-order to support the implementation of the Forensic Readiness Plan.</li>
        </ul>
        <p>A template Forensic Readiness Plan is available in Appendix D.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="definition-of-capability-and-requirement">
    <title>Definition of capability and requirement</title>
    <body/>
    <topic id="forensic-principles">
      <title>Forensic principles</title>
      <body>
        <p>The <xref href="forensic-readiness-policy.dita" format="dita">Forensic Readiness Policy</xref> document states the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> requirements on the need for IT forensics; each <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT system or IT domain <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> have or be explicitly covered by a Forensic Readiness Plan. The policy also outlines four principles which <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be followed. For reference, these are:</p>
        <ul>
          <li>Preservation of Evidence - the forensic investigation process <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> preserve the integrity of original evidence by providing sufficient security, legal advice and procedural measures to ensure that evidential requirements are met. Any processes applied to copies of evidence must be repeatable and achieve the same results.</li>
          <li>Aptitude for task - any task in a forensic investigation <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policywill"/> be conducted by a person assessed to be suitably trained and competent to carry out that task.</li>
          <li>Documented Methodology – all investigations <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policywill"/> follow the documented methodology outlined in the forensic readiness plan, with an audit trail of all processes applied to evidence. A chain of evidence <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policywill"/> be created and preserved demonstrating where evidence has been stored and whose care the evidence has been in from point of capture until presentation.</li>
          <li>Conformance - investigations <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policywill"/> be conducted in a manner which respects <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> policies and assumes full cooperation from all internal and external staff members.</li>
        </ul>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="resources-and-capability">
      <title>Resources and capability</title>
      <body/>
      <topic id="capability">
        <title>Capability</title>
        <body>
          <p><xref href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/forensic-readiness-good-practice-guide-18" format="html" scope="external">CESG GPG No.18</xref> provides guidance on the level of forensic capability that should be developed consummate to the Segmentation Model and Business Impact Levels (BILs) of the IT system or IT domain in question.</p>
          <p>Most <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems attract a BIL of 3 for Confidentially, Integrity and Availability and are classified as 'Deter' in the segmentation model. As such, <xref href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/forensic-readiness-good-practice-guide-18" format="html" scope="external">CESG GPG No.18</xref> considers that a Forensic Readiness Plan developed to capability level 2 is sufficient.  It is anticipated that the majority of <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems will fall into this capability level; however, this must be assessed on a system by system basis as part of the system Accreditation process. Further details on the process can be found in the <xref href="infrastructure-system-accreditation.dita" format="dita">Accreditation Framework</xref>.</p>
        </body>
      </topic>
      <topic id="people-and-resources">
        <title>People and resources</title>
        <body>
          <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT Operational Security Team (OST) is responsible for the IT Security Incident Management Process and charged with responding to all IT security incidents.</p>
          <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> intends to use a mix of internal and external resources to ensure that its forensic investigation capability can quickly and efficiently react to potentially incidents thereby minimising disruption to business.</p>
          <p><b>Note:</b> The <xref href="forensic-readiness-policy.dita" format="dita">Forensic Readiness Policy</xref> states that each forensic investigation must have named Forensic Investigation Owner.</p>
        </body>
      </topic>
      <topic id="evidence-collection-and-storage">
        <title>Evidence collection and storage</title>
        <body>
          <p>The responsibility for the collection and management of evidence is likely to be split between the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>, IT service providers and an external forensics provider. At all stages of a forensic investigation process (see <xref href="#incident-management-and-forensic-investigation-process" format="dita">here</xref> ), all evidential items collected from <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> sites (or from <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT equipment) must be managed and under the control of the Forensic Investigation Owner. Using <xref href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/forensic-readiness-good-practice-guide-18" format="html" scope="external">CESG GPG No.18</xref>, it is important to ensure that the procedures are laid out in the Forensic Readiness Plan.</p>
        </body>
      </topic>
      <topic id="internal-and-external-reporting-and-communication">
        <title>Internal and external reporting and communication</title>
        <body>
          <p>The <xref href="forensic-readiness-policy.dita" format="dita">Forensic Readiness Policy</xref> outlines the need to ensure appropriate internal and external reporting. To ensure consistency of approach, as the Forensic Readiness Plan sits within IT Security Incident Management, the trigger points for internal and external reporting must align with the relevant Incident Management Plan; see <xref href="incident-management-plan-and-process-guide.dita" format="dita">Incident Management Plan and Process Guide</xref> for further details.</p>
          <p><b>Note:</b> Responsibility for escalation normally resides with the Information Asset Owner (IAO) and/or the Forensic Investigation Owner. Where responsibility for an investigation has been escalated to the Departmental Security Officer (DSO) or Senior Information Risk Owner (SIRO), further escalation responsibility will also reside with them.</p>
          <p>The impact upon any ongoing operational activity must be considered before external reporting and escalation is invoked. The forensic investigation process (see <xref href="#incident-management-and-forensic-investigation-process" format="dita">here</xref> ) must allow for the chain of evidence to be passed to any authorised outside agencies (e.g. Law Enforcement) where applicable.</p>
        </body>
      </topic>
    </topic>
    <topic id="building-an-evidence-based-case">
      <title>Building an evidence-based case</title>
      <body>
        <p>A forensic investigation needs to go beyond identifying a wrongdoer or discovering how an incident occurred; it is required to provide a body of evidence that can stand up to detailed scrutiny, possibly by outside authorities. An investigation may involve many separate facts, both technical and testimonial, that are gathered together and presented as a logical argument.</p>
        <p>A forensic case consists of:</p>
        <ol>
          <li>The use of a technical forensic investigation methodology to build a consistent body of evidence that is applicable to its context e.g. presentation to a court of law or disciplinary hearing.</li>
          <li>The ability to record testimonial evidence, including witness statements attesting to the facts around an incident and its investigation by a forensic expert.</li>
          <li>The presentation of available facts in a logical, unbiased argument.</li>
        </ol>
        <p>The forensic investigative capability of the selected external provider must follow a predefined forensic methodology to acquire evidence in a consistent manner, suitably transport and preserve it, and present it as legally admissible in any subsequent proceedings.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="developing-a-forensic-readiness-plan">
    <title>Developing a forensic readiness plan</title>
    <topic id="scenario-based-planning">
      <title>Scenario based planning</title>
      <body>
        <p>It is important to consider the circumstances in which a Forensic Readiness Plan will be invoked. Scenario-based planning is all about examining the different circumstances and incident types which are likely to result in a forensic investigation, then building the forensic readiness plan around those scenarios.</p>
        <p>Table 1 provides a list scenario class types which are detailed in <xref href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/forensic-readiness-planning-implementation-guide-18" format="html" scope="external">CESG Implementation Guide No. 18</xref>. It is anticipated that for the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>, the most pertinent classes are class 1, 2, and 3; record management systems may also need to consider class 5.</p>
        <table>
          <title>Table 1 – Classification of forensic scenarios</title>
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Class</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Scenario</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Class 1 - Crime</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Scenarios involving criminal offences and law enforcement.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Class 2 - Internal</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Scenarios relating to internal (e.g. disciplinary or audit) investigations.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Class 3 - External</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Scenarios relating to external attack (e.g. by a hacker).</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Class 4 – Civil Dispute</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Scenarios involving civil disputes (e.g. over a contract).</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Class 5 – Regulatory Compliance</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Scenarios where information is to be provided in compliance with a regulatory requirement (e.g. under the Freedom of Information Act).</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p>Each scenario should be documented in full with a summary contained in the Forensic Readiness Plan (see Appendix D). Table 2 provides an outline for how each scenario should be documented. It is recommended that this is included as an appendix to the Forensic Readiness Plan.</p>
        <table>
          <title>Table 2 – Layout for a forensic investigation scenario</title>
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Section</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Description</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Scenario</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Scenario name and brief description.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Typical Synopsis</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Provide an example(s) of the scenario type. This is not meant to be exhaustive and there can be many variations on a theme.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Typical Diagnostic Indicators</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Produce a list of possible sources that may first raise suspicion that an incident of that scenario type has occurred. See Appendix A for possible incidents.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Typical Digital Evidence Sources</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Generate a checklist of potential initial sources (in approximate order of significance) of evidence that would be useful to an investigation in that scenario type. See Appendix B for guidance on digital evidence sources.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Typical Workflow</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Generate a workflow checklist of activities which should be followed. This does not need to be a precise list as each incident may have unique characteristics and take the investigation in unpredictable directions. See <xref href="#incident-management-and-forensic-investigation-process" format="dita">here</xref> for further details.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Typical Desired Outcomes</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">A checklist of the outcomes / outputs of conducting a forensic investigation.</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="criteria-for-conducting-a-forensic-investigation">
      <title>Criteria for conducting a forensic investigation</title>
      <body>
        <p>The decision to conduct a forensic investigation is a risk management decision, set against a cost/benefit analysis and any obligations stemming from any legal or regulatory requirements.</p>
        <p>Developing forensic scenarios (see <xref href="#scenario-based-planning" format="dita">here</xref>) plays an important role in understanding the inputs into the decision making process. Table 3 outlines the decision making criteria along with the considerations which should be applied.</p>
        <table>
          <title>Table 3 – Criteria for conducting a forensic investigation</title>
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Criteria</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Consideration</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Risk Management</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">It is important to ascertain the risk and issues associated with any incident and consider whether the impact of conducting a forensic investigation will have a detrimental effect on <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems or business processes.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Cost/Benefit Analysis</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">The costs associated with conducting a forensic investigation might outweigh the benefits of the desired outcomes. There may be a requirement to discuss those outcomes with the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> ITSO and/or external forensic provider to understand the options available.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Legal / Regulatory requirement</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Where there is a legal or regulatory requirement to conduct a forensic investigation, this must be fed into the decision making process along with an analysis of what level of forensic investigation is required to satisfy that requirement.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1"><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Authorisation</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">The decision to conduct a forensic investigation resides with the IAO and/or ITSO.</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="incident-management-and-forensic-investigation-process">
      <title>Incident management and forensic investigation process</title>
      <body>
        <p>The <xref href="it-incident-management-policy.dita" format="dita">IT Incident Management Policy</xref> sets out the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> requirement for incident management where forensics investigation form part of the incident management process. As such, the forensic incident management process is an extension of the overall incident management process.</p>
        <p><xref href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/forensic-readiness-planning-implementation-guide-18" format="html" scope="external">CESG Implementation Guide No. 18</xref> provides a generic forensic investigation process flow. Table 4 lists the step-by-step forensic investigation activities which are expected to be included in the Forensic Readiness Plan (see Appendix D), along with the role/s responsible for completing each activity.</p>
        <table>
          <title>Table 4 – Forensic investigation activities</title>
          <tgroup cols="3">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2"/>
            <colspec colname="col3" colnum="3"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Step</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Activity</entry>
                <entry colname="col3">Role/s responsible</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">1</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Decision to conduct a Forensic Investigation</entry>
                <entry colname="col3"><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> OST / <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> ITSO</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">2</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Agree the scope of the forensic investigation</entry>
                <entry colname="col3"><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> ITSO</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">3</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Provide a Single Point of Contact (SPOC) for incident management and co-ordinate forensic activities</entry>
                <entry colname="col3">Forensic Investigation Owner</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">4</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Establish a forensic investigation</entry>
                <entry colname="col3">Forensic Investigation Owner  / <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT System Manager / External Forensics provider</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">5</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Collection of evidence</entry>
                <entry colname="col3"><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT System Manager / External Forensics provider</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">6</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Analysis of evidence</entry>
                <entry colname="col3">Forensic Investigation Owner  / <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT System Manager / External Forensics provider</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">7</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Production of forensic reports</entry>
                <entry colname="col3">Forensic Investigation Owner / External Forensics provider</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">8</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Approval of forensic reports</entry>
                <entry colname="col3">SIRO / IAO / <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> ITSO</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">9</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Long term storage of evidence if required</entry>
                <entry colname="col3"><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT System Manager / <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> ITSO</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">10</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Provide specialist digital forensics legal advice to investigations</entry>
                <entry colname="col3">External Forensics provider</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">11</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">External reporting and liaising</entry>
                <entry colname="col3"><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> OST / <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> ITSO</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">12</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Act as Expert Witness for legal proceedings (if required)</entry>
                <entry colname="col3">External Forensics provider</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">13</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Post incident remediation analysis including production of lessons learned</entry>
                <entry colname="col3">Forensic Investigation Owner / External Forensics provider</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">14</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Approval of post incident remediation</entry>
                <entry colname="col3">SIRO / IAO / <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> ITSO</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">15</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Implement required changes to support investigation and post incident activities</entry>
                <entry colname="col3"><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT System Manager / IAO</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
        <note>The Forensic Readiness Plan and associated investigation process should align with the relevant business continuity plan and <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> policy on records management.</note>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="procedures">
      <title>Procedures</title>
      <body>
        <p>When the decision is made to conduct a forensic investigation or preserve evidence in a manor which does not preclude a forensic investigation, it is vital that a clear set of procedures are included within the Forensic Readiness Plan to ensure evidence is not lost or tampered with.</p>
        <p>Appendix C contains a generic set of procedures which are designed to be enacted during the first stages of a forensic investigation (steps 1 to 4 in Table 4) to ensure information is stored in a forensically safe manner.  Each Forensic Readiness Plan (see Appendix D) must contain a set of forensic procedures.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="performance-monitoring">
      <title>Performance monitoring</title>
      <body>
        <p>Each Forensic Readiness Plan must consider the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and Service Level Agreements (SLAs) required. This ensures that when required, the Forensic Readiness Plan can be executed in a timely and efficient manner.</p>
        <p>To support continuous improvement, the Forensic Readiness Plan must be updated annually with the following information:</p>
        <ul>
          <li>Current and target forensic capability levels;</li>
          <li>Status of the plan and associated scenarios;</li>
          <li>Status of any exercise and feedback from those exercises;</li>
          <li>Status of staff or external provider competency levels (including register of formal certifications);</li>
          <li>Current and past investigation knowledgebase and active issues (to be managed by <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> OST);</li>
          <li>Status of the current review cycle.</li>
        </ul>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="staff-education-training-and-awareness">
    <title>Staff, education, training and awareness</title>
    <body>
      <p>Good information usage and risk management practice demands appropriate training of all individuals coming into contact with <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems; this must include relevant aspects of the Forensic Readiness Plan.</p>
      <p>Ongoing general <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT security awareness training must integrate forensic readiness awareness into the existing courses, and ensure at least annual refreshment for all staff on the current policy and procedures. This includes the communication of any required incident response procedures to ensure admissibility of evidence.</p>
      <p>For the roles outlined <xref href="#incident-management-and-forensic-investigation-process" format="dita">here</xref>, more in depth forensic readiness training may be required. This must be considered during the development of the Forensic Readiness Plan. It may involve utilising external training courses and material to train first responders and other key individuals involved in developing and delivering the Forensic Readiness Plan.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="appendix-a-guidance-on-risks-and-incidents">
    <title>Appendix A. Guidance on risks and incidents</title>
    <body>
      <p>Business risks that require reduction or mitigation through the use of forensics come from a variety of sources and cover several different types of incident/crime.</p>
      <p>Table 5 provides some examples of incidents which may require a forensic investigation:</p>
      <table>
        <title>Table 5 – Incident categories and associated risks</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Incident Category</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Nature of Incident</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Creation or planting of viruses or malware</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">The deliberate introduction of these files could pose a major threat to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> information security. Infiltration of systems in this way potentially causes issues such as downtime, unpredictable behaviour and/or data non-availability.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Damage or modifications to computer equipment or data</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">The deliberate or incidental damage of a computer system may disguise unauthorised activity previously carried out on that device. Examining modifications of equipment may reveal planted devices, such as key loggers or modems used to bypass normal security mechanisms.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Disciplinary issues through inappropriate use of <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">This could include: the storage of pornographic or other images or files; email abuse such as SPAM; connecting systems to unofficial networks; attempted unauthorised access to computer data or programs; or unapproved upload/download of information to the Internet. See <xref href="acceptable-use-policy.dita" format="dita">Acceptable Use Policy</xref> for further details.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Email SPAM/Denial of Service Attacks</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Internal connections may be used to attack other internal or external targets. An investigation may look for evidence of the tools used by hackers.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Financial crimes, identity theft, fraud, forgery, theft of funds, blackmail or extortion</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">The misuse of a computer to steal people's identity for financial or other gain may leave evidence in IT systems or on portable media. A forensic study of disks, equipment, logs and email records plus other devices (e.g. mobile phones) and non-digital evidence (e.g. printed documents, written notes) may provide investigators with evidence to prosecute individuals.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">External</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Many outside parties, from teenagers acting alone to hostile foreign governments, may attempt to compromise the security of <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Internal Authorised</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Authorised users may abuse <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems by conducting unauthorised or illegal actions. These could include storage of offensive material, stealing information for an outside agent, providing (or selling) information to someone external to the organisation, the unapproved upload/download of information to the Internet or internal illegal file-sharing.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Internal to External</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Users may use <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT facilities to facilitate crimes against external parties. Examples would include mass emailing, hosting illicit Peer-to-Peer (P2P) clients (for music propagation etc) or launching attacks against websites.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Internal Unauthorised</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Staff members may attempt to circumvent controls to gain access to material they do not have authorisation to view. A cleaner attempting to access a restricted file system would be an example of this.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Target Systems</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">If a <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT system has been compromised through a security incident it may be necessary to collect evidence from that system to understand the method and source of the attack.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Telecommunications Crime/Hacking</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">The use of a computer to attempt unauthorised access to computers or networks is common. A forensic investigation might gather evidence from multiple devices, including router and firewall logs to establish the source and perpetrator of the attack.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Theft of intellectual Property/Protected Data</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">The unauthorised copying or removal of programs or sensitive data may involve the use of removable disks or other storage, such as a media player. Copyright theft would be an example of such a crime. Forensics can be used to prove a particular piece of equipment was used in such an incident, even if the perpetrator has attempted to cover their tracks.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="appendix-b-guidance-on-sources-and-forms-of-digital-evidence">
    <title>Appendix B. Guidance on sources and forms of digital evidence</title>
    <body>
      <p>Computers, networks, storage devices and their peripherals may be used in the commission of various incidents or crimes, or can themselves be the target of an attack. As a result, digital evidence may be collected from a variety of sources. Table 6 and Table 7 below provide a set of examples:</p>
    </body>
    <topic id="hardware-artefacts">
      <title>Hardware artefacts:</title>
      <body>
        <table>
          <title>Table 6 – Sources and forms of digital evidence - Hardware</title>
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Artefact</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Relevant Aspects</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Backup media (tapes, disks, etc.)</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Actions that took place over a period of time, or in the past, might be recreated using backup media, or backup (archive) files stored on a device.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">CD-ROM / DVD / memory sticks / floppy disks</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Storage media are often used for stealing data or intellectual property. An understanding of storage techniques, and protective / concealing technologies such as encryption is required to reveal hidden data.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Digital cameras and video devices including CCTV</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Increasingly, camera and video images are used as evidence. An investigation must handle this media appropriately to preserve evidence. Such systems need to have the same time source as IT for synchronisation purposes, as should Access Control systems.
                Ministry of Justice personnel are responsible for the upkeep of CCTV on <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> sites.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Hard disks (internal and external)</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Hard disks or removable media devices or phones may contain evidence in deleted or hidden files, folders or partitions not normally visible to users.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Media players / games consoles</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">These devices appear to be innocent entertainment devices, but may be used as mass storage or wireless transmission devices and include PC synchronisation capabilities. Recent generations of this type of technology have extremely large storage capacity in a physically small device.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Mobile Phones</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Modern mobile phones contain contact information and call logs (inbound and outbound). They also have significant data storage capability, and the ability to synchronise data with a PC. They can also be used to wirelessly connect a PC to the Internet or simply connect directly to the Internet, often with the majority of functionality of a PC both online and off.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">PC</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">This is the main unit which contains the hard disks and motherboard. Investigations may include: Copying volatile memory; Copying the BIOS; Examining hardware for unauthorised modification; Examining seals and asset tags.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Routers / Modems / Bridges / Firewalls</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Configurable network devices often contain logs which can be used to attribute a machine to a course of action, and generally contain configuration information showing how the device was connected at a given time.
                  It should be noted that a well known issue with device-specific logs such as these is that they do not record the system operating context within which they have been deployed and used. As this context changes dynamically and drifts away from any notional configuration over time, it is generally thought that examining such logs more than six months after an incident is of very little value.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">USB / Firewire devices / Wireless cards, PCMCIA cards, and 'flash' memory cards</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">An array of devices can be connected to PCs through these ports and may need investigating. Interactions via this route can be subtle, and either innocuous or malicious. For example, some modern mobile phones charge themselves via the USB connection – and it can be difficult to distinguish this type of use from an inappropriate data upload/download. Furthermore, many USB connected devices automatically synchronise selected data with the PC, so a user may not be aware of the data transfer that has actually taken place.
                Memory sticks (or memory keys) are another class of USB device where care must be taken as their small physical size allows them to be used covertly with ease, and the latest generation of these devices includes the facility to automatically invoked data capture.</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="software-and-other-artefacts">
      <title>Software and other artefacts:</title>
      <body>
        <table>
          <title>Table 7 – Sources and forms of digital evidence – Software and other artefacts</title>
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Artefact</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Relevant Aspects</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Application software</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Some applications, such as accounting packages, may hold records of fraud or employee records and activities.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Operating System (OS) components and the registry</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">The OS is the software which controls the operation of the PC or phone. Security is enforced by the operating system, so attempts to subvert a PC frequently, starting with an attack on the operating system files.
                The registry is specific to Windows-based PCs and is the central repository of system management information. Examination of the registry can reveal: What devices have been connected; What application software has been installed and uninstalled; Usage history for applications; The state (configuration) of operating system components. </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Application and Middleware Log Files</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Many applications and middleware (particularly the large enterprise varieties) produce their own log files for various activities. An investigation may involve the detailed study of this information, or of the servers holding this information. Investigators need to be aware of any attempt to subvert log files in support of malicious activity.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Email records</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">IT systems can hold records of recent email activity, and mail servers retain extensive logs and records[1]. Organisation policy may dictate an email retention period, such as seven years for everything. An investigation may involve the detailed study of this information, or of the servers holding this information.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">System Log Files</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">IT systems produce log files for various activities. An investigation may involve the detailed study of this information, or of the servers holding this information. Investigators need to be aware of any attempt to subvert log files in support of malicious activity.</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
        <note>Different evidence sources require specific handling and documentation.
          This will need to be managed by the Forensic Investigation Owner.</note>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="appendix-c-forensic-procedures">
    <title>Appendix C. Forensic procedures</title>
    <body>
      <p>This section contains a set of forensic procedures which should be enacted in addition to contacting the relevant IAO/Line Manager and the IT Security Manager when an incident occurs.</p>
      <p>These procedures are designed to ensure as much evidence is preserved as possible, and to facilitate the transfer of equipment and material to a forensic investigator for further inspections.</p>
      <p>As outlined <xref href="#criteria-for-conducting-a-forensic-investigation" format="dita">here</xref>,
        consideration must be given to the strength of case required to proceed;
        therefore,
        a preliminary business impact assessment should be made based on whether any of the following are present:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Evidence of a reported crime.</li>
        <li>Evidence of internal fraud, theft or other loss.</li>
        <li>Estimate of possible damages (a threshold may induce an escalation trigger).</li>
        <li>Potential for embarrassment/reputation loss.</li>
        <li>Any immediate impact on customers, business partners or profitability.</li>
        <li>Recovery plans have been enacted or are required.</li>
        <li>The incident is reported under a compliance regime.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>For computer equipment which is switched on,
        the following process must be applied:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Secure the area containing the equipment.</li>
        <li>Move people away from  the computer and power supplies.</li>
        <li>If attached, disconnect any modem.</li>
        <li>If the computer is attached to the network remove the network cable from the data point.</li>
        <li>Do not touch the keyboard or mouse.</li>
        <li>Do not take advice from the computer's user/owner.</li>
        <li>Allow any printers to finish printing (further evidence may be printing).</li>
      </ol>
      <p>If equipment is removed before the investigator arrives then the following steps must be performed:
        <ol>
          <li>Record what is on the screen and take photographs if possible.</li>
          <li>Switch off the computer by pulling the power cable from the computer,
            not from the power socket.
            <note>For laptops, remove the battery before pulling the power cable.</note>
            When removing the power supply always remove the end attached to the computer and not the socket.
            This will avoid data being written to the hard drive if an uninterruptable power supply is fitted. Then:
          <ol>
            <li>If possible, label and photograph all the components in situ. If no camera is available draw a sketch plan;</li>
            <li>Label the ports and cables so that the computer can be reconstructed at a later date;</li>
            <li>Carefully remove the equipment and record serial numbers/asset tags;</li>
            <li>Ensure all items have been signed and completed exhibit labels attached;</li>
            <li>Search the immediate area for diaries, notebooks or pieces of paper that may contain passwords;</li>
            <li>Consider asking the user if there are any passwords, and if given, record them accurately;</li>
            <li>Make detailed notes of all actions in relation to the seizure of the computer equipment;</li>
            <li>Remove the computer equipment to a secure location.</li>
          </ol></li>
        </ol>
      </p>
      <p>For computer equipment which is switched off,
        the following process must be applied:
      <ol>
        <li>DO NOT switch the computer on.</li>
        <li>Secure and take control of the area controlling the equipment.</li>
        <li>Move people away from the computers and power supplies.</li>
        <li>Confirm the computer is actually switched off – some screen savers can give the appearance that the computer is switched off.
          Check the hard drive and monitor lights to confirm this.</li>
        <li>Be aware that some laptops may power up by opening the lid.</li>
        <li>Remove the battery from laptops.</li>
        <li>Unplug the power supply from the computer.
          A computer that is apparently switched off may be in sleep mode and may be accessed remotely,
          allowing the alteration or deletion of data.</li>
      </ol></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="appendix-d-forensic-readiness-plan-template">
    <title>Appendix D: Forensic Readiness Plan template</title>
    <body>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1" namest="col1" nameend="col2">IT Security – Forensic Readiness Plan</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1" namest="col1" nameend="col2">System Details</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">IT System / IT Domain Name</entry>
              <entry>[Enter the name of the IT system or domain.]</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">System Description and Scope</entry>
              <entry>[This section should describe the name and purpose of the system, including the protective marking level of the information it holds. Diagrams may prove useful where there is a complex interaction between systems covered in this statement/standard. It is important to include notes of where a part of a system is excluded from the scope of this plan e.g. an application which is managed by another function.]</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Responsibilities and Ownership</entry>
              <entry>[Complete a statement detailing who has ownership and who will be responsible for the administration of this plan. Where a third-party or managed service provider is responsible for all or just a component of the plan, a clear reference should be made to contractual responsibilities. Points of contact regarding forensic readiness should also be noted.] [<b>Note:</b> Each role outlined <xref format="dita" href="#incident-management-and-forensic-investigation-process">here</xref> must be named in this section.]</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1" namest="col1" nameend="col2">Forensic scenarios</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">[Name of Scenario 1]</entry>
              <entry>[A summary of each scenario developed must be contained in this section, with full details provided as an appendix to the plan. See <xref format="dita" href="#scenario-based-planning">here</xref> for further details.]</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1" namest="col1" nameend="col2">Process and procedures</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Process</entry>
              <entry>[This section must contain a step-by-step plan of activities to be followed during a forensic investigation. See <xref format="dita" href="#incident-management-and-forensic-investigation-process">here</xref> for further details.]</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Procedures</entry>
              <entry>[This section must contain details on the initial forensic procedures which should be followed once the decision to undertake a forensic investigation has been made. See <xref format="dita" href="#procedures">here</xref> for further details]</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1" namest="col1" nameend="col2">Performance Monitoring</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">KPIs / Performance measures</entry>
              <entry>[Include details on the KPIs and SLAs associated with this plan. See <xref format="dita" href="#performance-monitoring">here</xref> for further details]</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Continuous improvement</entry>
              <entry>[Include details on the continuous improvement measures associated with this plan. See <xref format="dita" href="#performance-monitoring">here</xref> for further details]</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1" namest="col1" nameend="col2">Training and awareness</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Capability and staff training</entry>
              <entry>[Include details of how staff training measure outlined <xref format="dita" href="#staff-education-training-and-awareness">here</xref> are met.]</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1" namest="col1" nameend="col2">Plan Approval</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">IT System Manager</entry>
              <entry>[Enter the name of the IT System Manager.] [DATE OF APPROVAL]</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Information Asset Owner</entry>
              <entry>[Enter the name of the Information Asset Owner.] [DATE OF APPROVAL]</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">System Accreditor</entry>
              <entry>[Enter the name of the system Accreditor.] [DATE OF APPROVAL]</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <note>It is a legal requirement in the UK to hold communication logs for up to 12 months from the date the communication took place (although not the content).</note>
    </body>
  </topic>
</topic>
