<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="hmg-cryptography-business-continuity-management-standard">
  <title>HMG Cryptography Business Continuity Management Standard</title>
  <topic id="legacyreferences" conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/legacyreferences"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="introduction">
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <topic id="scope">
      <title>Scope</title>
      <body>
        <p>This Business continuity plan is limited to all HMG cryptographic material procured by the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> Crypto Custodian for and on behalf of any part of the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> with the exception of BRENT encryption requirements.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="who-needs-to-read-this-document">
      <title>Who needs to read this document</title>
      <body>
        <p>This document is for the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Crypto Custodian, the Alternate Crypto Custodian and any authorised signatories and or people who have access to the safes where encryption that is managed by the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Crypto Custodian is stored.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="background">
      <title>Background</title>
      <body>
        <p>All HMG encryption is procured from CESG which is the National Technical Authority for Information Assurance and is based in GCHQ. It is typically produced to support a <xref href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/information/products-cesg-assisted-products-service" format="html" scope="external">CESG Assisted Products Service (CAPS)</xref> product which means that it has gone through rigorous testing to give HMG assurance that it is secure. HMG Cryptography is produced under special circumstances to provide additional assurance and that process, distribution and storage of this material is protected and secure.</p>
        <p>HMG has specific standards on the management of Crypto and other associated products called the HMG IS4, it is the policy of the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> to follow and comply with HMG IS4 and this document is intended to support and augment that standard.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="encryption-media">
    <title>Encryption Media</title>
    <topic id="types-of-encryption-and-how-they-are-distributed">
      <title>Types of encryption and how they are distributed</title>
      <body>
        <p>Key Variables are typically loaded onto Floppy discs, or CD.</p>
      </body>
      <topic id="hard-disc-encryption">
        <title>Hard disc encryption</title>
        <body>
          <p>Products such as Becrypt, Eclypt and Bitlocker are procured and distributed to by suppliers through the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Crypto Custodian and transferred to them to deploy and manage for the lifetime of the key variable which is determined by the CESG Security Operating Procedures (SyOPs).</p>
        </body>
      </topic>
      <topic id="transmission-encryption">
        <title>Transmission encryption</title>
        <body>
          <p>Products such as XKryptor, Datacryptor and Ultra AEP are procured and managed by the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Crypto Custodian and distributed to suppliers as and when necessary and returned to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Crypto Custodian for storage.</p>
        </body>
      </topic>
    </topic>
    <topic id="segregation-and-supersession">
      <title>Segregation and supersession</title>
      <body>
        <p>Key variables that are issued from CESG are typically issued with two editions. The first is for immediate deployment and the second is for emergency supersession. In the case of hard disc encryption the supplier holds the live edition and the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Crypto Custodian holds any others. All supplier crypto deployment environments are not at the same site as the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Crypto Custodian and this provides natural segregation of the editions.</p>
        <p>Eclypt uses a lifetime key variable and does not have more than one edition, In the event of compromise, the usual CINRAS report and request to CESG for emergency replacement of the key variable will be required.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="protection-of-key-variables">
    <title>Protection of Key Variables</title>
    <body>
      <p>All encryption is stored in a <xref href="https://www.cpni.gov.uk/" format="html" scope="external">CPNI (Centre for the Protection of the National Infrastructure)</xref> Class 4 safe which also has a certified 2 hour burning time. Above the safe is a fire suppressant sprinkler system.</p>
      <p>Access to the safe is strictly limited to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Crypto Custodian and the Alternate Crypto Custodian. A copy of the master code for the safe is stored with the Departmental Security Officer. Only the DSO or ITSO are permitted to open the safe in the event of an emergency.</p>
    </body>
    <topic id="work-ethic-with-key-variables">
      <title>Work ethic with key variables</title>
      <body>
        <p>The area that the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Custodian works is open plan in an accredited IL3 environment. The DSO has further accredited the immediate area surrounding the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Crypto Custodian in 5.31 of 102 Petty France for Crypto Management on the understanding that the personnel surrounding them are SC cleared and because there are desks immediately by the safe to allow a clear line of site from the Custodian's desk to the safe.</p>
        <p>All key variables must be kept in the safe and only removed when specific action is required on a key variable.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="emergency-procedures-for-evacuation-and-invacuation">
    <title>Emergency procedures for evacuation and invacuation</title>
    <body>
      <p>Applicable to anyone who has access to any of the safes:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>
          <p>If the alarms sound return all encryption that is out and in use to the fireproof safe.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p><b>Lock and check</b> all safes are secure.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Leave by the nearest exit in accordance with Fire Evacuation procedures.</p>
        </li>
      </ol>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="post-action-to-emergency-evacuation-and-invacuation">
    <title>Post action to emergency evacuation and invacuation</title>
    <body>
      <p>If there has been any damage to any of the encryption stored at the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Notify CESG immediately on: 01242 221491 extension 31950
          <p>notifying them of the event and request an immediate record of holdings list.</p></li>
        <li>A CINRAS report must be generated and issued to: cinras@cesg.gsi.gov.uk
          <p>and a copy to the Operational Security Team: <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ostemail"/></p></li>
        <li>A muster of all key variables and a check against the record of holding list undertaken and an order to CESG raised of any replacement key variables.</li>
        <li>Upon receipt of a replacement key variable emergency plans to change the key variable of the associated product must begin.</li>
      </ul>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
