<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="information-classification-handling-and-security-guide">
  <title>Information Classification, Handling and Security Guide</title>
  <body/>
  <topic id="introduction">
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <body>
      <p>All <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> employees interact with information,
        and are responsible for its protection.
        Information security must be considered during the process of designing,
        maintaining,
        and securing the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s IT systems that are used to process information.</p>
      <p>However,
         not all information warrants the strictest levels of protection.
         This is why information classification is so important to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> –
         to ensure that the department can focus its security efforts on its most sensitive information.
         Information security must be proportionate to the security classification of the information,
         and must be considered throughout the information lifecycle to maintain its confidentiality,
         integrity,
         and availability.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="classifying-information">
    <title>Classifying information</title>
    <body>
      <p>The three information security classifications the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> uses are <codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph>,
        <codeph>SECRET</codeph>,
        and <codeph>TOP SECRET</codeph>.
        This follows the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/hmggovernmentsecurityclassifications"/>.</p>
      <p>Each information security classification has a minimum set of security measures associated with it that need to be applied.
        These security measures might change,
        depending on the information lifecycle stage.</p>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Classification</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1"><b><codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph></b></entry>
              <entry colname="col2">All information related to routine business,
                operations,
                and services.
                If this information is lost,
                stolen,
                or published,
                it could have damaging consequences,
                but is not subject to a heightened threat profile.
                For regular,
                unsupervised access to <codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph> information,
                someone would be expected to have achieved <xref href="https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/government-baseline-personnel-security-standard" format="html" scope="external">Baseline Personnel Security Standard (BPSS)</xref> assessment.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1"><b><codeph>SECRET</codeph></b></entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Very sensitive information that requires protection against highly sophisticated,
                well-resourced,
                and determined threat actors.
                For example,
                where compromise could seriously damage military capabilities,
                international relations,
                or the investigation of a serious crime.
                For regular,
                unsupervised access to <codeph>SECRET</codeph> information,
                someone would be expected to have passed <xref href="https://www.gov.uk/guidance/security-vetting-and-clearance#applicant" format="html" scope="external">National Security Vetting</xref> Security Check (SC) clearance.
                In exceptional circumstances,
                someone with BPSS might be granted occasional supervised access to UK <codeph>SECRET</codeph> assets,
                or be required to work in areas where <codeph>SECRET</codeph> or <codeph>TOP SECRET</codeph> information might be overheard.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1"><b><codeph>TOP SECRET</codeph></b></entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Exceptionally sensitive information that directly supports,
                or threatens,
                the national security of the UK or its allies,
                and requires extremely high assurance of protection from all threats.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <p>Securing the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s information must be done with a combination of information security measures:
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="40*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="60*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Type of Measure</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1"><b><codeph>PERSONNEL</codeph></b></entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Personnel should be aware of their security responsibilities and in turn acquire security clearances and undertake training to support the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s information security objectives.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1"><b><codeph>PHYSICAL</codeph></b></entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Tangible measures that prevent unauthorised access to physical areas,
                systems,
                or assets.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1"><b><codeph>TECHNICAL</codeph></b></entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Hardware or software mechanisms that protect information and IT assets.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table></p>
      <p>It is important to understand that security classification is determined by the level of risk in case of loss or unauthorised access,
        and not by the type of information.</p>
      <p>It is the responsibility of the Data Owner to classify the data.</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Most production data is <codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph> information.
          Within this,
          some production data might be classified as <codeph>SECRET</codeph> information.</li>
        <li>Most personal data is <codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph> information.
          Within this,
          some personal data might be classified as <codeph>SECRET</codeph> information if it meets the risk threshold defined.</li>
      </ul>
        <p>The table below sets out the definitions for each security classification,
          as well as whether it is necessary to explicitly <q>mark</q> a piece of information with its classification type.
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="3">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2"/>
            <colspec colname="col3" colnum="3"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Classification</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Definition</entry>
                <entry colname="col3">Marking</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1"><b><codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph></b></entry>
                <entry colname="col2">All information related to routine public sector business,
                  operations and services.</entry>
                <entry colname="col3"> </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1"> </entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Almost all personal information falls within the <codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph> classification.</entry>
                <entry colname="col3"> </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1"> </entry>
                <entry colname="col2"><codeph>OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE</codeph> is not a separate security classification.
                  It should be used to reinforce the <q>need to know</q> principle,
                  beyond the baseline for <codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph>.</entry>
                <entry colname="col3"><codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph> data does not need to be marked except where <codeph>SENSITIVE</codeph>,
                  and must be marked <codeph>OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE</codeph>.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1"><b><codeph>SECRET</codeph></b></entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Very sensitive information that requires protection against highly sophisticated,
                  well-resourced and determined threat actors,
                  for example serious and organised crime.</entry>
                <entry colname="col3">Must be marked</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1"><b><codeph>TOP SECRET</codeph></b></entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Exceptionally sensitive information that directly supports (or threatens) the national security of the UK or its allies and requires extremely high assurance of protection from all threats.</entry>
                <entry colname="col3">Must be marked</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table></p>
        <p>Additional information on how to manage information is described in
          the <xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/guidance/knowledge-information/managing-information/" format="html" scope="external">Information Asset Management Policy</xref>.</p>
        <p>Information security classification may change throughout the information lifecycle.
          It is important to apply appropriate security classifications and continually evaluate them.</p>
        <p>The consequences of not classifying information correctly are outlined below:
        <ul>
          <li>Applying too high a marking can inhibit business operations,
            such as collaboration,
            and lead to unnecessary and expensive protective controls being applied.</li>
          <li>Applying too low a marking may result in inappropriate controls,
            and may put sensitive assets at greater risk of compromise.</li>
          <li>Incorrect disposal can lead to unauthorised access to information.
            Disposal of information should be done using approved processes,
            equipment or service providers.
            <ph audience="audience-tech">Refer to the <xref href="data-destruction.dita" format="dita"><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Data Destruction guide</xref> to understand when the disposal should be witnessed and recorded.</ph></li>
        </ul></p>
        </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="official-and-official-sensitive">
      <title><codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph> and <codeph>OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE</codeph></title>
      <body>
        <p>All of the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s information is,
          at a minimum,
          <codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph> information.
          It is very likely that the information you create and use in your <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> day-to-day job is <codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph> information.</p>
        <p>Examples include:
        <ul>
          <li>Routine emails you send to your colleagues.</li>
          <li>Information posted on the intranet.</li>
          <li>Supplier contracts.</li>
          <li>Information and data you use to build a database,
            such as database secrets,
            record types,
            and field types.</li>
          <li>Most production data.</li>
          <li>Most non-production data.</li>
        </ul></p>
        <p><codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph> means that the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s typical security measures are regarded as sufficient.</p>
        <p><codeph>OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE</codeph> <q>whilst not a formal classification</q>,
          should be used sparingly,
          so that its effectiveness is not weakened.
          This is especially important when you consider that <codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph> is already well-protected.</p>
        <p>Use <codeph>OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE</codeph> when you want to remind users to be careful when handling information.
          This asks them to use extra care,
          beyond what is expected for the baseline <codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph> classification.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="secret">
      <title><codeph>SECRET</codeph></title>
      <body>
        <p>The threshold for classifying information as <codeph>SECRET</codeph> information is very high.
          It is unlikely that you will encounter <codeph>SECRET</codeph> information in your day-to-day job.</p>
        <p><codeph>SECRET</codeph> information should not usually be handled unless you have sufficient and valid clearance.
          If you have gained access to information that you believe is <codeph>SECRET</codeph>,
          contact the Cyber Assistance Team (CAT) immediately: <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/catemail"/>.</p>
        <p>To help decide whether some information should be classified as <codeph>SECRET</codeph>,
          ask yourself a simple question:
          <lq>If a hacker gained unauthorised access to the information,
            could it compromise the security or prosperity of the country?</lq></p>
        <p>The answer is most likely <q>No</q>.
          In that case,
          you should consider using the <codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph> classification.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="top-secret">
      <title><codeph>TOP SECRET</codeph></title>
      <body>
        <p>If the threshold for classifying information as <codeph>SECRET</codeph> is very high,
          the threshold for classifying information as <codeph>TOP SECRET</codeph> is extremely high.
          It is very unlikely that you will encounter <codeph>TOP SECRET</codeph> information in your day-to-day job.</p>
        <p><codeph>TOP SECRET</codeph> information should not be handled unless you have sufficient and valid clearance.
          If you have gained access to information that you believe is <codeph>TOP SECRET</codeph>,
          contact the Cyber Assistance Team (CAT) immediately: <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/catemail"/>.</p>
        <p>To help decide whether some information should be classified as <codeph>TOP SECRET</codeph>,
          ask yourself a simple question:
          <lq>If a hacker gained unauthorised access to the information,
            would it directly and immediately threaten the national security of the country?</lq></p>
        <p>The answer is most likely <q>No</q>.
          In that case,
          you should consider using the <codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph> or <codeph>SECRET</codeph> classification,
          as appropriate.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="reclassifying-information" conref="information-classification-and-handling-policy.dita#reclassifying-information"><title/></topic>
    <topic id="reclassification-examples">
      <title>Reclassification examples</title>
      <body>
        <p>When deciding whether it is appropriate or desirable to reclassify information,
          a useful model is to consider what audience might get value from accessing the information.
          For example,
          if a hostile country might want the information,
          then the information might well be best classified as <codeph>SECRET</codeph>.
          Alternatively,
          a reclassification decision might be required as a result of changing threat advice from intelligence agencies.</p>
      </body>
      <topic id="example-1">
        <title>Example 1</title>
        <body>
          <p>An asset owner creates a report.
            The report contains potentially private information about individuals.
            The asset owner decides that the report should be classified as <codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph>,
            with the <codeph>SENSITIVE</codeph> handling caveat.</p>
          <p>A user wishes to share a copy of the report <q>as-is</q> with their team.
            They cannot remove the handling caveat without prior discussion and agreement from the asset owner.</p>
        </body>
      </topic>
      <topic id="example-2">
        <title>Example 2</title>
        <body>
          <p>An asset owner creates a report.
            The report contains potentially private information about individuals.
            The asset owner decides that the report should be classified as <codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph>,
            with the <codeph>SENSITIVE</codeph> handling caveat.</p>
          <p>A user wishes to share a subset of the report with their team.
            In particular,
            the report is substantially re-worked to remove all the private information.
            The user becomes the owner of this new asset.
            They are responsible for this new asset.
            They can decide that the <codeph>SENSITIVE</codeph> handling caveat is not required.</p>
            <p>The original report retains its <codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph> classification and <codeph>SENSITIVE</codeph> handling caveat.</p>
        </body>
      </topic>
      <topic id="example-3">
        <title>Example 3</title>
        <body>
          <p>An asset owner creates a report.
            The report contains information about plans to handle a pandemic.
            The asset owner decides that the report should be classified as <codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph>,
            with the <codeph>SENSITIVE</codeph> handling caveat.</p>
          <p>A user reviews the report.
            They realise that the information could potentially compromise the security or prosperity of the country.
            They decide to increase the classification of the report,
            and treat it as <codeph>SECRET</codeph>.
            They discuss this decision with the asset owner,
            so that the original report is correctly reclassified.</p>
        </body>
      </topic>
    </topic>
    <topic id="handling-and-securing-information">
    <title>Handling and securing information</title>
    <body>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/hmggovernmentsecurityclassifications"/>
        is the most comprehensive guide on the security measures necessary for each of the three security classifications,
        including measures related to the following:
      <ul>
        <li>Personnel (administrative) security.</li>
        <li>Physical security.</li>
        <li>Technical (information security).</li>
      </ul></p>
      <p>The following sections set out the minimum measures you need to consider when handling and securing information within the different levels of classification.</p>
    </body>
    <topic id="handling-and-securing-official-and-official-sensitive-information">
      <title>Handling and securing <codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph> and <codeph>OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE</codeph> information</title>
      <body>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="3">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="30*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="30*"/>
            <colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" colwidth="40*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Type</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Measure</entry>
                <entry colname="col3">Example</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1"><b><codeph>PERSONNEL</codeph></b></entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Make sure all <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> staff including contractors undergo baseline security clearance checks.</entry>
                <entry colname="col3">A contractor working with the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Security Team must undergo a baseline background check (i.e. BPSS check) at minimum.
                  Refer to <xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/guidance/hr/recruitment/security-vetting/" format="html" scope="external">Security Vetting Guidance</xref>.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1"><b><codeph>PHYSICAL</codeph></b></entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Make sure that you lock your screen before you leave your desk.</entry>
                <entry colname="col3"> </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1"> </entry>
                <entry colname="col2">When working in an unsecured area,
                  for example when working remotely,
                  think about whether unauthorised people might be able to eavesdrop on your conversations,
                  or look over your shoulder at your screen.</entry>
                <entry colname="col3"> </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1"> </entry>
                <entry colname="col2">The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> has additional requirements when moving assets which can be found in the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/hmggovernmentsecurityclassifications"/>.</entry>
                <entry colname="col3">A software developer working from a flatshare should take calls in private,
                  and use headphones and a privacy screen.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1"> </entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Transferring information from one location to another requires planning and preparation,
                  including a risk assessment.
                  More information on this is available in the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/hmggovernmentsecurityclassifications"/>,
                  and from your manager.</entry>
                <entry colname="col3">A technical architect working on the requirements for a new <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
                  platform should lock their laptop before leaving their desk.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1"><b><codeph>TECHNICAL</codeph></b></entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Protect information <q>at rest</q> by using appropriate encryption.</entry>
                <entry colname="col3">In the development of a new cloud-hosted solution,
                  the following criteria should be considered:
                  remote access connections and sessions are encrypted using an appropriate VPN;
                  information stored <q>at rest</q> on end user devices and the cloud is encrypted;
                  information in transit between the end user and the cloud service,
                  such as payment services,
                  is encrypted;
                  and the cloud service used is a <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/gcloud"/> service.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1"> </entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Appropriate encryption is also necessary when protecting information in transit.</entry>
                <entry colname="col3">When using any services over the PSN,
                  make sure you fully read the agreements that you make with the service provider for details and definitions about the data you use or transfer
                  using the service,
                  to ensure you understand the risks to compliance,
                  confidentiality,
                  integrity,
                  and availability.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1"> </entry>
                <entry colname="col2"><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/gcloud"/> services can be used for <codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph> information.</entry>
                <entry colname="col3"> </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1"> </entry>
                <entry colname="col2">You must not use removable media such as an USB memory stick unless it is unavoidable.
                  When you have to use one,
                  it must be <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> issued,
                  encrypted so that the effects of losing it are minimised,
                  and the data erased securely after use.</entry>
                <entry colname="col3"> </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
        <note><ph id="continuallyevaluate">Different information security measures might be applicable throughout the information lifecycle.
          It is important continually to evaluate security classifications and their corresponding measures.
          Refer to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/hmggovernmentsecurityclassifications"/> for further guidance.</ph></note>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="handling-and-securing-secret-information">
      <title>Handling and securing <codeph>SECRET</codeph> information</title>
      <body>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="3">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="30*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="30*"/>
            <colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" colwidth="40*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Type</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Measure</entry>
                <entry colname="col3">Example</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1"><b><codeph>PERSONNEL</codeph></b></entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Make sure employees and contractors undergo Security Check (SC).</entry>
                <entry colname="col3">A contractor working with the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Security Team must have at least SC before being allowed to access <codeph>SECRET</codeph> information.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1"><b><codeph>PHYSICAL</codeph></b></entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Consider using multiple layers of security to protect <codeph>SECRET</codeph> information.
                  <codeph>SECRET</codeph> information should be held on a secure computer network which is physically isolated from unsecured networks and the internet.</entry>
                <entry colname="col3">Imagine you are moving locations for a server used to host <codeph>SECRET</codeph> information.
                  The encrypted server is secured in a locked and monitored room in 102 Petty France.
                  You have now decided to move it to 10 South Colonnade.
                  This should only be done after relevant parties,
                  including the data owner,
                  line manager,
                  and the system owner,
                  have reviewed and accepted the risks associated with this transfer.
                  The transfer should then be handled by two SC-cleared individuals,
                  for example,
                  employees of a specialised commercial courier company.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1"> </entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Transferring <codeph>SECRET</codeph> information from one location to another requires planning and preparation,
                  including the completion of a Risk Assessment and the use of SC-cleared personnel.
                  More information on this is available in the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/hmggovernmentsecurityclassifications"/> and from your manager.</entry>
                <entry colname="col3"> </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1"><b><codeph>TECHNICAL</codeph></b></entry>
                <entry colname="col2"><codeph>SECRET</codeph> information at rest should be protected with very strong encryption.
                  Contact the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Security Team for more information: <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/securityemail"/>.</entry>
                <entry colname="col3"> </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1"> </entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Care should be taken to ensure that <codeph>SECRET</codeph> information in transit is only shared with defined recipient users through assured shared infrastructure or using very strong encryption.</entry>
                <entry colname="col3"> </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1"> </entry>
                <entry colname="col2"><codeph>SECRET</codeph> information should be processed on IT systems which have been approved for the <codeph>SECRET</codeph> threat model. Advice on what commercial IT systems meet this requirement is available from the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Security Team:
                  <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/securityemail"/></entry>
                <entry colname="col3"> </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
        <note><ph conref="#continuallyevaluate"/></note>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="handling-and-securing-top-secret-information">
      <title>Handling and securing <codeph>TOP SECRET</codeph> information</title>
      <body>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="3">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="30*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="30*"/>
            <colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" colwidth="40*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1">Type</entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Measure</entry>
                <entry colname="col3">Example</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1"><b><codeph>PERSONNEL</codeph></b></entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Ensure employees and contractors undergo Developed Vetting (DV) security clearance checks.</entry>
                <entry colname="col3">A contractor working with the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Security Team should have at least DV clearance
                  before being allowed to access <codeph>TOP SECRET</codeph> information.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1"><b><codeph>PHYSICAL</codeph></b></entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Handling and storing <codeph>TOP SECRET</codeph> information requires exceptional planning,
                  monitoring,
                  and record-keeping.</entry>
                <entry colname="col3">Imagine you are moving locations for a server used to host <codeph>TOP SECRET</codeph> information.
                  The encrypted server is secured in a locked and continuously monitored room in 102 Petty France.
                  You have now decided to move it to 10 South Colonnade.
                  This should only be done after you,
                  your manager,
                  and senior managers have reviewed and accepted the risks associated with this transfer.
                  The transfer should then be handled by two DV-cleared individuals,
                  for example, employees of a specialised commercial courier company.
                  When it happens,
                  local police may need to be informed and involved in providing an additional layer of security.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1"> </entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Working remotely with <codeph>TOP SECRET</codeph> is not permitted due to the extreme sensitivity of the information.</entry>
                <entry colname="col3"> </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1"> </entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Transferring <codeph>TOP SECRET</codeph> information from one location to another
                  requires even greater planning and preparation than for <codeph>SECRET</codeph> information,
                  including the completion of a Risk Assessment by senior management and the use of DV-cleared personnel.
                  More information on this is available in the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/hmggovernmentsecurityclassifications"/> and from your manager.</entry>
                <entry colname="col3"> </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1"><b><codeph>TECHNICAL</codeph></b></entry>
                <entry colname="col2">When physical security measures cannot be used,
                  <codeph>TOP SECRET</codeph> information at rest should be protected with extremely strong encryption.
                  Contact the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Security Team in these circumstances: <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/securityemail"/>.</entry>
                <entry colname="col3"> </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1"> </entry>
                <entry colname="col2">Care should be taken to ensure that <codeph>TOP SECRET</codeph> information in transit
                  is only shared with defined recipient users through accredited shared infrastructure or using extremely strong encryption.</entry>
                <entry colname="col3"> </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colname="col1"> </entry>
                <entry colname="col2"><codeph>TOP SECRET</codeph> information should be processed on IT systems
                  which have been approved <foreign></foreign>the <codeph>TOP SECRET</codeph> threat model.
                  Advice on what commercial IT systems meet this requirement is available from the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Security Team:
                  <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/securityemail"/>.</entry>
                <entry colname="col3"> </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
        <note><ph conref="#continuallyevaluate"/></note>
        <note>For further information on statutory disclosures and transfer to national archives,
          please refer to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/hmggovernmentsecurityclassifications"/>.</note>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#contact-details"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html epub" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
