<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="information-classification-and-handling-policy">
  <title>Information Classification and Handling Policy</title>
  <topic id="introduction">
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <body>
      <p>This document provides the core set of security principles and expectations on the handling and classification of information on <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> IT systems.</p>
      <p>To help identify formal policy statements,
        each is prefixed with an identifier of the form:
        <codeph>POLICHxxx</codeph>,
        where xxx is a unique ID number.</p>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> stores and processes a wide variety of information,
        including personal information.
        The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> has a duty to protect all the information stored and processed on its IT systems.</p>
      <p>This document provides the Information Classification and Handling Policy for all information held on <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="scope">
    <title>Scope</title>
    <body>
      <p>This policy covers all staff (including contractors and agency staff) who use <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems.</p>
      <p>The overarching policy on information classification and handling is
        contained in the <xref href="government-classification-scheme.dita" format="dita">Government Security Classifications</xref> document set.
        This document provides guidance and policy statements to explain how the overarching policy applies within the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</p>
      <p><codeph>POLICH001</codeph>: All Users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be made aware of the Information Classification and Handling Policy,
        and provided with security awareness training which covers this policy.</p>
      <p><codeph>POLICH002</codeph>: All Users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be provided with refresher security awareness training which covers this policy every 12 months.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="inventory-of-assets">
    <title>Inventory of assets</title>
    <body>
      <p><codeph>POLICH003</codeph>: All information assets <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be identified and have a nominated asset owner,
        to help ensure that the appropriate protection of these assets is maintained.</p>
      <p>Examples of what an information asset constitutes include:
      <ul>
        <li>Databases and data files.</li>
        <li>System documentation.</li>
        <li>User manuals, training material, operational or support procedures.</li>
        <li>Security documentation.</li>
        <li>Archived backup data.</li>
      </ul></p>
      <p>The list of information assets and associated Information Assets Owners is coordinated and maintained by
        individual <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> business groups;
        the responsibility for this resides with the business group SIRO.</p>
      <p><codeph>POLICH004</codeph>: All <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> business groups <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> maintain a list of information assets,
        their associated named Information Asset Owner (IAO),
        and which IT systems they reside on.
        <note>Some information assets might not be held on IT systems.</note></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="deriving-a-classification">
    <title>Deriving a classification</title>
    <body>
      <p>At the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>,
        all information assets are assessed against HMG guidance on business impact,
        and HMG guidance on the protection of personal data.
        This assessment is used to select the appropriate classification from
        the <xref href="https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/government-security-classifications" format="html" scope="external">Government Security Classification scheme</xref>.</p>
      <p><codeph>POLICH005</codeph>: All information assets stored or processed on <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be assessed for a Business Impact Level,
        such that an impact level for the Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability for each asset is derived.</p>
      <p>The Asset Owner is responsible for determining the classification that applies to an asset.</p>
      <p>All users are responsible for applying the appropriate classification to information assets created or handled on an IT system,
        where a pre-existing classification does not exist.
        <!-- FIXME -->
        <note>As outlined in the <xref href="it-security-policy-overview.dita" format="dita"><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT Security Policy</xref>,
          all <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> data and assets
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> have IT security controls designed and implemented to protect Confidentiality,
          Integrity, 
          and Availability.</note></p>
      <p id="further-classification-information">Further information on the criteria and derivation for classification can be found at: <xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/guidance/knowledge-information/protecting-information/classifying-information/" format="htm" scope="external">https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/guidance/knowledge-information/protecting-information/classifying-information/</xref>.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="reclassifying-information">
    <title>Reclassifying information</title>
    <body>
      <p><codeph>POLICH006</codeph>: The asset owner has responsibility for reclassifying an asset.
      If another user has reason to believe that an asset is incorrectly classified or has an incorrect handling caveat,
      they should normally discuss this with the asset owner.
      The other user cannot unilaterally reclassify the asset.</p>
      <p>The exception is where the asset might need a higher classification than that assigned by the asset owner.
        The reclassification <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> still be communicated to the asset owner,
        for consistency.
      If it is agreed that the classification should be increased,
      check with the Operational Security Team (<ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ostemail"/>) whether additional actions are required to protect the material.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="application-of-government-classification">
  <title>Application of Government classification</title>
  <body>
  <p><codeph>POLICH007</codeph>: The Government classification scheme defines how information should be labelled and handled.
    Output from IT systems containing information that is classified <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> carry classification labels where it is
    higher than <codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph>
    or requires a handling caveat,
    for example <codeph>OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE</codeph>.
    This includes, but is not limited to, printed reports, removable media, electronic messages (such as e-mail) and file transfers.</p>
  <p><codeph>POLICH008</codeph>: All IT hardware and removable media assets <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be labelled with the highest classification
    from among each of the individual information assets stored or processed on it.
    <note>The classification of IT hardware and removable media assets might be reduced if sufficient security controls are applied,
      for example whole disk encryption,
      and if there is agreement with the system assurer or <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/cisolong"/>.</note></p>
  <p><codeph>POLICH009</codeph>: All output from an IT system <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be given the classification of the highest of each of the individual information assets contained within that output.</p>
  <p><codeph>POLICH010</codeph>: Where applying a classification label is not feasible,
    an alternative method <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> agreed with the system assurer or <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ciso"/>.</p>
  <p conref="#deriving-a-classification/further-classification-information"/>
  </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="information-handling-on-moj-it-systems">
  <title>Information handling on <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems</title>
  <body>
  <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> policy for handling classified material
    applies to all <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT assets and all outputs from an IT system.</p>
  </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#contact-details"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html epub" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
