<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="it-investigations-planning-and-operations-policy">
  <title>IT Investigations - Planning and Operations Policy</title>
  <topic id="how-to-use-this-policy">
      <title>How to use this policy</title>
      <body>
      <p> This policy is for technical users. Technical users include:</p>
      <ul>
      <li>Technical architects</li>
      <li>DevOps specialists</li>
      <li>IT service managers</li>
      <li>Software developers</li>
      </ul>
      <p>This policy is part of a set of <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> policies and supporting guides that cover various aspects of incident and disaster management and response.</p>
      <p>The policies are:</p>
      <ul>
      <li><xref href="it-security-incident-management-policy.dita" format="dita">IT Security Incident Management Policy</xref></li>
      <li><xref href="it-disaster-recovery-policy.dita" format="dita">IT Disaster Recovery Policy</xref></li>
      <li>IT Investigations - Planning and Operations Policy</li>
      </ul>
      <p> The supporting guides are:</p>
      <ul>
      <li><xref href="it-security-incident-response-plan-and-process-guide.dita" format="dita">IT Security Incident Response Plan and Process Guide</xref></li>
      <li><xref href="it-disaster-recovery-plan-and-process-guide.dita" format="dita">IT Disaster Recovery Plan and Process Guide</xref></li>
      </ul>
      </body>
      
      <topic id="policy-statements">
      <title>Policy Statements</title>
      <body>
      <p>This policy refers to Policy Statements, <b>POL.POP.001</b> to <b>POL.POP.015</b>.</p>
      <p><b>POL.POP.XXX</b> indicates the specific policy statement to be adhered to.</p>
      </body>
      </topic>
  
  <topic id="it-forensics">
    <title>IT Forensics</title>
        <body>
        <p>IT forensics is the collection, storage, analysis and preparation of digital evidence that might be required in legal or disciplinary proceedings,</p>
        <p>Data used in a forensic investigation <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be collected, preserved and analysed using systemic, standardised and legally compliant methods.</p>
        <p>This will ensure that data gathered is admissible as evidence in a legal case, dispute or disciplinary hearing relating to an IT security incident.</p>
        <p>There are two types of forensic investigation:</p>
        <ul>
        <li>proactive forensic monitoring - as part of an indentified <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> security control</li>
        <li>reactive investigation - where a suspicious incident has been identified or reported</li>
        </ul>
        <p>A forensics investigation <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> be carried out:</p>
        <ul>
          <li>if an area needs proactive monitoring to enable forensic investigation</li>
          <li>if a business function makes a request via incident management escalation channels, to gather forensic evidence.</li>
          <li>if an investigation is requested as part of the IT security incident management process</li>
          <li>if requested as part of a leak investigation.</li>
          </ul>
            <p><b>POL.POP.001</b>: Each <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT system or IT domain <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be covered by a Forensic Readiness Plan.</p>
            <p><b>POL.POP.002</b>: Each Forensic Readiness Plan <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> include:
            <ul>
            <li>an assessment of the risk management benefits</li>
            <li>authorisation from the IT Security Team and Senior Information Risk Officer (SIRO)</li>
            <li>a corresponding IT security incident management plan</li>
            </ul></p>
            <p>Risk management benefits include risk assessments and cost-benefit-analysis, which will determine if an investigation is viable from a risk and cost perspective.</p>
            <p><b>POL.POP.003</b>: Forensic investigations in support of leak investigations <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be requested by the individual responsible for the leak investigation.</p>
          </body>    
        </topic>

        <topic id="integrity-of-digital-evidence">
      <title>Integrity of Digital Evidence</title>
      <body>
      <p><b>POL.POP.004</b>: Each forensic investigation <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be guided by the principles set out by the <xref href="https://library.college.police.uk/docs/acpo/digital-evidence-2012.pdf" format="html" scope="external">ACPO guidelines</xref> issued by the National Police Chiefs' Council (NPCC).</p>
          <p>The integrity of data, which <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymight"/> subsequently relied upon in court, <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be maintained throughout the forensic investigation process.</p>
          <p>Any person accessing data as part of an investigation <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be competent to do so and able to justify the relevance and implications of their actions.</p>
          <p>Each investigation <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be documented clearly and leave an audit trail that will enable a third-party to examine each process and replicate the findings,</p>
          <p>The person leading the investigation is responsible for ensuring that all methods used are carried out in accordance with the law.</p>
          <p>Investigations <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be conducted in line with <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> policies.</p>
          </body>
          </topic>

          <topic id="evidence-collection-and-storage">
      <title>Evidence Collection and Storage</title>
      <body>
          <p>Security teams <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> be able to monitor systems to detect and respond to potential security incidents. If an incident needs to be investigated further, forensic tools <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymay"/> be used to assess and gather evidence.</p>
          <p>The Forensic Investigation Owner (FIO) is responsible for the collection and management of digital evidence.</p>
          <p>An external organisation <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymay"/> conduct the investigation on behalf of the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</p>
          <p>Each item of evidence collected <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be managed according to the relevant Forensic Readiness Plan.</p>
          <p><b>POL.POP.005</b>: Each Forensic Readiness Plan <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> include a process for the collection and storage of digital evidence, to include provision for where this task is conducted by an external organisation.</p>
          <p><b>POL.POP.006</b>: All users of an <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT system <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be made aware that their access is monitored, and that IT forensic techniques <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymay"/> be used to capture evidence as part of an investigation into an IT security incident.</p>
         <p><b>POL.POP.007</b>: A Forensic Readiness Plan <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> contain clearly defined procedures and methods for conducting a forensic investigation. The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be able to resume business operations following an IT security incident. Any forensic investigation <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be conducted in a manner that enables the restoration of <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT services.</p>
         <p><b>POL.POP.008</b>: A Forensic Readiness Plan <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> consider business continuity arrangements to ensure that essential functions are able to be restored. Digital evidence <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be handled carefully in order for it to remain admissible.</p>
        <p><b>POL.POP.009</b>: Each forensic investigation <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> have a clearly documented chain of custody for all digital evidence.</p>
         <p><b>POL.POP.010</b>: The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Security Team is responsible for the integrity of digital evidence. Each forensic investigation <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> have a named FIO who is responsible for the investigation and management of digital evidence.</p>
       <p><b>POL.POP.011</b>: Any investigative action taken on a piece of evidence <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be captured and recorded. This record <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> include details of the action taken and the person responsible for undertaking that action.</p>
       <p><b>POL.POP.012</b>: Admissibility of evidence in a court of law depends on how the evidence was captured. Before capturing any evidence, advice <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be sought from the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> legal team and forensic investigation provider.</p>
       <p><b>POL.POP.013</b>: Each Forensic Readiness Plan <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> include details of how to securely dispose of evidence when it is no longer required. This <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> conform with <xref href="secure-disposal-of-it-equipment.dita" format="dita">Secure disposal of IT equipment</xref>.</p>
      </body>
       </topic>
       
       <topic id="legal-requirements">
       <title>Legal Requirements</title>
       <body>
       
       <p>Investigations of electronically stored information within the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> conform to the latest legal and regulatory guidelines.</p> 
      <p>BS 10008:2022 provides information on the collection of electronically stored information as evidence.</p> 
            <p><b>POL.POP.014</b>: During each forensic investigation, methods used to capture digital evidence <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be in accordance with <xref href="https://www.bsigroup.com/en-GB/bs-10008-electronic-information-management/" format="html" scope="external">BS 10008:2022</xref>.</p>
            </body>
            </topic>

            <topic id="reporting-and-communication">
            <title>Reporting and Communication</title>
            <body>
            <p>Each IT Security Incident Management Plan contains a communication plan and an escalation plan that <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be followed when responding to an IT Security incident.</p>
            <p>The <xref href="it-security-incident-response-plan-and-process-guide.dita" format="dita">IT Security Incident Response Plan and Process Guide</xref> gives more information.</p>
           <p>For major incidents it might be necessary to consider escalating the forensic investigation process to an external body. This might be:</p>
           <ul>
           <li>Law Enforcement</li>
           <li>National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC)</li>
           <li>Cabinet Office</li>
           <li><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> legal advisors</li>
           <li>Other Government Agencies as required</li>
           </ul>
           <p><b>POL.POP.015</b>: Each Forensic Readiness Plan <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> include the reporting structure and escalation path for internal and external teams and the individual responsible for managing the incident. This <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be consistent with the corresponding <xref href="it-security-incident-response-plan-and-process-guide.dita" format="dita">IT Security Incident Response Plan and Process Guidea</xref>. The forensic investigation process <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> enable the chain of evidence to be passed to outside agencies, if required.</p>
           </body>
           </topic>
           <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#contact-details"><title/></topic>
           
</topic>
</topic>

           
           
        
           