<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="it-security-all-users-policy">
  <title>IT Security All Users Policy</title>
  <body/>
  <topic id="introduction">
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <body>
      <p>This policy provides more information on the actions expected of all <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> users
        when using <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> equipment and infrastructure.
        It is a sub-page to the <xref href="it-security-policy-overview.dita" format="dita">IT Security Policy Overview</xref>.</p>
        <note>In this document,
          the terms "data" and "information" are used interchangeably.</note>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="who-is-this-for" conref="it-security-policy-overview.dita#who-is-this-for"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="approach">
    <title>Approach</title>
    <body>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> ensures that IT security controls are designed and implemented to protect <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> data,
        IT Assets,
        and reputation,
        based around the following requirements:
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Confidentiality</dt>
            <dd>Knowing and ensuring that data can only be accessed by those authorised to do so.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Integrity</dt>
            <dd>Knowing and ensuring the accuracy and completeness of data,
              and that it has not been deliberately or inadvertently modified from a previous version.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Availability</dt>
            <dd>Knowing and ensuring that IT systems and data can always be accessed when required and authorised.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="assets">
    <title>Assets</title>
    <body>
      <p>This policy applies to all premises,
        physical equipment,
        software and data owned or managed by the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.
        This includes IT systems,
        whether developed by the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> or managed by IT service providers.
        It covers the use of IT equipment and the data processed on those IT systems,
        irrespective of location.
        It provides direction and support to preserve the confidentiality,
        integrity,
        and availability of <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> resources.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="security-classification">
    <title>Security classification</title>
    <body>
      <p>All <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Staff are responsible for ensuring data is:
      <ul>
        <li>Classified correctly as detailed in the <ph audience="audience-basic audience-tech"><xref href="information-classification-handling-and-security-guide.dita" format="dita">Information Classification,
          Handling and Security Guide</xref></ph><ph audience="audience-suppliers">Information Classification, Handling and Security Guide</ph>.</li>
        <li>Distributed only in accordance with the statements of this policy and related guides.</li>
        <li>Protected by the appropriate security controls to ensure its confidentiality, integrity and availability.</li>
      </ul></p>
      <p audience="audience-suppliers audience-tech">Access to classified information shall be controlled in accordance with the requirements set out within the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <xref href="access-control-guide.dita" format="dita">Access Control Guide</xref>.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="physical-and-personnel-security">
    <title>Physical and personnel security</title>
    <body>
      <p>The Physical Security Policy defines how physical access to assets must be controlled within the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> to prevent unauthorised access,
        use,
        modification,
        loss,
        or damage.
        All <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> users must understand that:
          <ul>
            <li>All <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems and services must be assessed against environmental risks,
              for example flood or fire,
              to maintain the asset's confidentiality,
              integrity,
              and availability.</li>
            <li>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s IT Teams are not directly responsible for the physical security and environment of the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> sites.</li>
            <li>Physical security controls and the environment in which the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems operate form part of a system's overall risk landscape.
              All <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> users <b>MUST</b> ensure they adhere to the security controls and requirements set out in this policy.</li>
            <li>Unless otherwise formally agreed by the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>,
              all <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> users,
              including agency staff and contractors who have access to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> data,
              require <xref href="https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/government-baseline-personnel-security-standard" format="html" scope="external">Baseline Personnel Security Standard (BPSS)</xref> asssessment,
              as a minimum.</li>
            <li><xref href="https://www.gov.uk/guidance/security-vetting-and-clearance#applicant" format="html" scope="external">National Security Vetting</xref> should only be applied for where it is necessary,
            proportionate,
            and adds real value.</li>
            <li>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> does not have a standing requirement for system administrators or application developers to maintain Security Check (SC) clearance.</li>
          </ul></p>
      <p>Further information on physical and personnel security is available from <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>Group Security (<ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/groupsecurityemail"/>) and <xref href="https://www.cpni.gov.uk/physical-security" format="html" scope="external">CPNI Guidance</xref>.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="identity-and-access-control">
    <title>Identity and access control</title>
    <body>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <xref href="access-control-guide.dita" format="dita" audience="audience-suppliers audience-tech">Access Control Guide</xref> ensures that information and IT assets can be accessed only by authorised personnel,
      and that each individual is accountable for their actions.</p>
      <p audience="audience-suppliers audience-tech">The guide outlines the controls and processes designed to limit access based on a "need to know" basis,
        and according to defined roles and responsibilities.</p>
      <p audience="audience-suppliers audience-tech">The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <xref href="access-control-guide.dita" format="dita">Access Control Guide</xref> addresses access control principles such as identification,
      authentication,
      authorisation,
      and accounting.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="password-management" audience="audience-suppliers audience-tech">
    <title>Password management</title>
    <body>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <ph audience="audience-tech"><xref href="password-management-guide.dita" format="dita">Password Management Guide</xref></ph><ph audience="audience-suppliers">Password Management Guide</ph> sets out the requirements for strong password implementation and management,
      to help prevent unauthorised access to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> systems.
      Examples include password creation, authentication, storage and management.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="email-security">
    <title>Email security</title>
    <body>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Email Security Guide specifies the controls and processes required to protect the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s email systems from unauthorised access or misuse,
      that may compromise the confidentiality,
      integrity or availability of the data stored and shared within them.</p>
      <p>The guide outlines the various security levels required to transfer information from the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s email servers to organisations outside the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> and other government departments.
        It covers topics such as the threats to email security (phishing) and secure email transfer.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="remote-working-and-portable-devices">
    <title>Remote working and portable devices</title>
    <body>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> has in place <ph audience="audience-basic audience-tech"><xref href="remote-working.dita" format="dita">Remote Working</xref></ph><ph audience="audience-suppliers">Remote Working</ph> guidance that sets out the requirements for safely accessing and using the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s systems and applications when working remotely,
        for example from home,
        another government office,
        or while travelling.</p>
      <p>Mobile computing is the use of portable equipment such as mobile phone,
        laptop or tablet,
        and which supports remote working.
        Mobile computing equipment provided by the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> must be used in line with the
        <ph audience="audience-basic audience-tech"><xref href="acceptable-use-policy.dita" format="dita">Acceptable
          Use Policy</xref></ph><ph audience="audience-suppliers">Acceptable Use Policy</ph>.</p>
      <p>Any request to take <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT equipment overseas must follow the guidance provided in the
        <ph audience="audience-basic audience-tech"><xref href="acceptable-use-policy.dita" format="dita">Acceptable
          Use Policy</xref></ph><ph audience="audience-suppliers">Acceptable Use Policy</ph>
          and the <ph audience="audience-basic audience-tech"><xref href="accessing-moj-it-systems-from-overseas.dita" format="dita">Accessing
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT Systems From Overseas</xref></ph><ph audience="audience-suppliers">Accessing
              <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT Systems From Overseas</ph> information.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="malware-protection" audience="audience-suppliers audience-tech">
    <title>Malware protection</title>
    <body>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <ph audience="audience-tech"><xref href="malware-protection-guide-introduction.dita" format="dita">Malware
        Protection Guide</xref></ph><ph audience="audience-suppliers">Malware Protection Guide</ph> specifies the controls and processes required to protect all systems against malware.
        Malware may enter the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> by employee email through the internet,
        mobile computers,
        and removable media devices.</p>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <ph audience="audience-tech"><xref href="malware-protection-guide-introduction.dita" format="dita">Malware
        Protection Guide</xref></ph><ph audience="audience-suppliers">Malware Protection Guide</ph> addresses the following relevant domains:
      <ul>
        <li>Implementation controls to stop malware entering <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> devices and systems.</li>
        <li>Preventing malicious code from executing on <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> devices and systems.</li>
        <li>Mitigating the impact of malware when entering <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> devices and systems.</li>
      </ul></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="roles-and-responsibilities">
    <title>Roles and responsibilities</title>
    <body>
      <p>All <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> users are responsible for ensuring the confidentiality,
        integrity,
        and availability of data within the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.
        This includes all <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> data and assets.
        These responsibilities extend to all assets referenced in this policy.</p>
      <p>All <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> users are required to comply with the roles and responsibilities outlined in the Information Assurance Framework Process.</p>
      <p>Specific roles and responsibilities are described within each sub-page.
        All <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> users must comply with these roles and responsibilities,
        and understand these as being a part of their ultimate responsibility for information security within the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</p>
      <p>For the purpose of this Information Security Policy,
        the following roles are described.
        They have specific responsibilities in the implementation and monitoring of different provisions of the policy.</p>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2"/>
          <colspec colname="col3" colnum="3"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Role</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Responsibility</entry>
              <entry colname="col3">Which includes...</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1"><b>Senior Information Risk Owners (SIROs)</b></entry>
              <entry colname="col2">The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> SIRO is responsible for the overall <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> information risk policy and guidance,
                and ensures it continues to provide appropriate risk appetite and a suitable risk framework.</entry>
              <entry colname="col3">Implementing and managing information risk management in their respective business groups.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1"> </entry>
              <entry colname="col2"> </entry>
              <entry colname="col3">Regularly reviewing the application of policy and guidance to ensure it remains appropriate to their business objectives and risk environment.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1"> </entry>
              <entry colname="col2"> </entry>
              <entry colname="col3">Authorising any exceptions and deviations from the IT Security Policy with consideration of the impact any changes might have to other users.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1"><b>Delegated Agency SIROs</b></entry>
              <entry colname="col2">The delegated agency SIRO is responsible for the information risk policy and guidance as it applies to their systems and personnel,
                and ensures the agency adheres to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s risk appetite and risk framework.</entry>
              <entry colname="col3">In line with the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> SIRO,
                but for Agency systems and personnel.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1"><b>Information Asset Owners (IAO)</b></entry>
              <entry colname="col2">IAOs,
                also known as IA Leads,
                must be satisfied that all required technical,
                personnel,
                physical and procedural security controls are in place and followed.
                IAOs are responsible for ensuring the management and security of their information asset over the whole asset lifecycle.</entry>
              <entry colname="col3">Logging and monitoring.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1"> </entry>
              <entry colname="col2"> </entry>
              <entry colname="col3">Reviewing access permissions.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1"> </entry>
              <entry colname="col2"> </entry>
              <entry colname="col3">Understanding and addressing risks associated to their information assets.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1"> </entry>
              <entry colname="col2"> </entry>
              <entry colname="col3">Ensuring secure disposal of information when it is no longer required.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1"><b>System Owners</b></entry>
              <entry colname="col2">System Owners are responsible for managing access control rules for their particular system.</entry>
              <entry colname="col3">Verifying access rights in order to assist a scheduled review audit of User accounts and permissions.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1"><b>Contract Owners</b></entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Contract Owners are responsible for ensuring contractors adhere to the IT Security Policy set out here and in associated documentation.</entry>
              <entry colname="col3">Verify that contracts are written to reflect the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s IT Security Policy.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1"> </entry>
              <entry colname="col2"> </entry>
              <entry colname="col3">Ensure contractors comply with the requirements set out by this policy and associated documentation.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1"> </entry>
              <entry colname="col2"> </entry>
              <entry colname="col3">Being responsible for escalating the risk of non-compliance by a supplier,
                and seeking guidance on suspected non-compliance with security requirements in a contract.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1"> </entry>
              <entry colname="col2"> </entry>
              <entry colname="col3">Ensure that the contractor is responsible for any sub-contractors that they employ directly or indirectly,
                and that the contractor,
                not the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>,
                is responsible for ensuring that those sub-contractors comply with this policy and associated documentation.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="incidents" conref="conrefs.dita#incidents"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#contact-details"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html epub" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
