<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="it-security-policy-overview">
  <title>IT Security Policy (Overview)</title>
  <body/>
  <topic id="introduction">
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <body>
      <p>This policy gives an overview of information security principles and responsibilities within the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/>
        and provides a summary of the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s related security policies and guides.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="audience">
    <title>Audience</title>
    <body>
      <p>This policy is aimed at three audiences:
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Technical users</dt>
            <dd>These are in-house <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Digital and Technology staff who are responsible for implementing controls throughout technical design,
              development,
              system integration,
              and operation.
              This includes DevOps,
              Software Developers,
              Technical Architects,
              and Service Owners.
              It also includes Incident Managers from the Event,
              Problem,
              Incident,
              CSI and Knowledge (EPICK) Team.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Service Providers</dt>
            <dd>Defined as any other <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> business group,
              agency,
              contractor,
              IT supplier and partner who in any way designs,
              develops or supplies services (including processing,
              transmitting and storing data) for,
              or on behalf of,
              the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>General users</dt>
            <dd>All other staff working for the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
      <p>Within this policy,
        "all <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> users" refers to General users,
        Technical users,
        and Service Providers as defined above.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="associated-documentation">
    <title>Associated documentation</title>
    <body>
      <p>For further guidance on IT Security,
        see the <ph audience="audience-suppliers audience-tech">policies</ph><ph audience="audience-basic">policy</ph> below.
      <ul>
        <li><xref href="it-security-all-users-policy.dita" format="dita">IT Security All Users Policy</xref>: which provides further details of the responsibilities of all <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> users at the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</li>
        <li audience="audience-suppliers audience-tech"><xref href="it-security-technical-users-policy.dita" format="dita">IT Security Technical Users Policy</xref>: which provides the details of where users can find more technical and service provider related information on IT Security within the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</li>
      </ul></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="principles">
    <title>Principles</title>
    <body>
      <p>All <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/>:
      <ul>
        <li>Comply with the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s <ph product="notpolicy"><ph audience="audience-basic audience-tech"><xref href="acceptable-use-policy.dita" format="dita">Acceptable Use Policy</xref></ph><ph audience="audience-suppliers">Acceptable Use Policy</ph></ph><ph product="policy">Acceptable Use Policy</ph> wherever they work.</li>
        <li>Report all security incidents promptly and in line with <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s <ph product="notpolicy"><ph audience="audience-tech"><xref href="it-incident-management-policy.dita" format="dita">IT Incident Management Policy</xref></ph><ph audience="audience-basic audience-suppliers">IT Incident Management Policy</ph></ph><ph product="policy">IT Incident Management Policy</ph>.</li>
        <li>Make themselves aware of their roles,
          responsibilities and accountability and fully comply with the relevant legislation as described in this and other <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> guidance.</li>
        <li>Be aware of the need for Information Security as an integral part of the day to day business.</li>
        <li>Protect information assets under the control of the organisation.</li>
      </ul></p>
      <p>Further information can be found in the <xref href="it-security-all-users-policy.dita" format="dita">IT Security All Users Policy</xref>.</p>
    </body>
    <topic id="technical-users" audience="audience-suppliers audience-tech">
      <title>Technical users</title>
      <body>
        <p>Technical users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> follow the guidance set out for all <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> users in <xref href="it-security-all-users-policy.dita" format="dita">IT Security All Users Policy</xref> <b>AND</b> also comply with the <xref href="it-security-technical-users-policy.dita" format="dita">IT Security Technical Users Policy</xref>.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="service-providers" audience="audience-suppliers audience-tech">
      <title>Service Providers</title>
      <body>
        <p>Service Providers <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> follow the guidance set out for all <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> users in <xref href="it-security-all-users-policy.dita" format="dita">IT Security All Users Policy</xref> <b>AND</b> also comply with the <xref href="it-security-technical-users-policy.dita" format="dita">IT Security Technical Users Policy</xref>.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="enforcement">
    <title>Enforcement</title>
    <body>
      <ul>
        <li>This policy is enforced by lower level policies, standards, procedures and guidance.</li>
        <li>Non-conformance with this policy could result in disciplinary action taken in accordance with the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s Disciplinary procedures.
          This could result in penalties up to and including dismissal.
          If an employee commits a criminal offence,
          they might also be prosecuted.
          In such cases,
          the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> always co-operates with the relevant authorities,
          and provides appropriate evidence.</li>
      </ul>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="incidents" conref="conrefs.dita#incidents"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#contact-details"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html epub" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
