<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="laptops">
  <title>Laptops</title>
  <topic id="storing-data-on-laptops">
    <title>Storing data on laptops</title>
    <body>
      <p>The guidance applies to all <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> staff.</p>
      <p>If you need to store data on your computer you should always remember to move it into:
        <ol id="storage-preference">
          <li>Your local Electronic Document and Record Management (EDRM) system.</li>
          <li>An <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> shared drive.</li>
          <li>Your <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>-provided 'home' drive.</li>
        </ol>
        Do this as soon as you can next connect to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> network.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="where-should-i-save-data-when-using-a-laptop">
    <title>Where should I save data when using a laptop?</title>
    <body>
      <p>It is best to avoid saving any data on a laptop hard drive.
        However, if you absolutely must, you should always remember to copy or move the data to
        the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> network as soon as you next can connect to it,
        either via secure remote access or by direct connection.</p>
      <p>In order to avoid potential data loss, save data in:
        <ol conref="#storing-data-on-laptops/storage-preference"><li/></ol>
      </p>
      <p>There is a better chance of recovering lost data if you have saved it to
        the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> network,
        as data stored on the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> network is backed up daily.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="what-is-the-impact-of-hard-drive-failures">
    <title>What is the impact of hard drive failures?</title>
    <body>
      <p>Hard drive failures can lead to the irrecoverable loss of data.
        Any data loss can have security implications for the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>,
        and a significant impact on:
      <ul>
        <li>Our business opportunities.</li>
        <li>Our reputation.</li>
        <li>Our ability to deliver services to the public.</li>
      </ul></p>
      <p>If you experience any issues with your laptop or IT service,
        <xref href="#general-enquiries-including-theft-and-loss" format="dita">ask for help</xref>.</p>
      <p audience="audience-basic audience-tech">For more information about the main security issues that are likely to affect remote and mobile workers,
        refer to the <xref href="remote-working.dita" format="dita">remote working guide</xref>.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="how-to-reset-your-password">
    <title>How to reset your password</title>
    <body>
      <p>To reset your password,
        you will need to contact the <xref href="#general-enquiries-including-theft-and-loss" format="dita">IT Service Desk</xref>.
        They will carry out checks to confirm your identity.
        This might include asking your line manager or court manager to confirm your identity,
        by sending an email to the IT Service Desk.
        Once your identity is confirmed,
        your password will be reset and you will quickly regain access to your laptop.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="reusing-equipment" conref="secure-disposal-of-it-equipment.dita#reusing-equipment"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="general-enquiries-including-theft-and-loss" conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/general-enquiries-including-theft-and-loss"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/contact-details"><title/></topic>
</topic>
