<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="leak-handling-process">
  <title>Leak handling process</title>
  <body>
    <p>This document provides a high-level overview of the leak handling process for the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/>. It includes the roles, responsibilities, and major steps performed as part of leak handling.</p>
    <p>It should be read in conjunction with the associated <xref href="leak-handling-policy.dita" format="dita">leak handling policy</xref>.</p>
    <p><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/groupsecurityemailtext"/> owns the leak handling process. However, the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/jdsoclongemail"/> provides tech support as required, for example performing searches. The analysis and reporting from these teams is an essential security management component in assessing and mitigating current and future leaks that affect <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> data, systems, networks and solutions.</p>
    <p>Send all leak questions or requests for help to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/securityemail"/>. This applies to all leaks, suspected or otherwise. Your message is evaluated promptly and normally passed to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/groupsecurityemailtext"/>. Depending on the circumstances, the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/jdsocemail"/> might also provide direct advice on a case-by-case basis.</p>
    <note>Normally, the <xref href="it-incident-management-policy.dita" format="dita" audience="audience-suppliers audience-tech"><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> incident management process</xref><xref href="https://security-guidance.service.justice.gov.uk/it-incident-management-policy/" format="html" scope="external" audience="audience-basic"><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> incident management process</xref> is followed at the start of a leak investigation.</note>
    <note>If a leak investigation indicates that physical examination of evidence is required, then <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/jdsocemail"/> involvement includes a Team Lead as a minimum.</note>
    <note>An informal leak investigation takes place entirely within the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>. A formal leak investigation takes place with involvement from outside the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>, typically Cabinet Office.</note>
  </body>
  <topic id="audience">
    <title>Audience</title>
    <body>
      <p>This process is aimed at all staff working for, or supplying services to, the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>. This includes General users, Technical users, contractors, third parties, and Service Providers.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="roles-and-responsibilities">
    <title>Roles and responsibilities</title>
    <body>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>All parties</dt>
          <dd>For each leak investigation, all parties agree on the scale, the scope, the expectations, and the limitations.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/cisolong"/></dt>
          <dd>Notifies and continues to update the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Permanent Secretary regarding the incident. Obtains authorisation for a leak investigation if approved.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Group Security</dt>
          <dd>Following authorisation from the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Permanent Secretary, Group Security:
            <ol>
              <li>Reviews the information available and triages requests.</li>
              <li>Defines the scope of the informal investigation (internal to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>).</li>
              <li>Provides the Cyber Security Team with the defined investigation scope and requests an electronic investigation if required.</li>
              <li>Issues the leak questionnaire to those known to have had access to the leaked information.</li>
              <li>Reviews all evidence gathered, and prepares the informal leak report.</li>
            </ol>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>IA Lead, Case Manager or Requestor</dt>
          <dd>Addresses all investigation requirements. Provides governance sign-off. Communicates with the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/jdsoc"/> on case status, including case closure notification or retention date.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/jdsoc"/></dt>
          <dd>Has ownership of all data acquisition, preservation, analysis and reporting. This includes verification of sign-off. Provides regular feedback case review as needed. Tracks incidents using Service-Now and team internal tracker tools.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Shared Security Team</dt>
          <dd>Forwards and formally logs incidents using ServiceNow. Works closely with all other security teams to resolve or escalate as required. The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/sharedsecurityteamtext"/> ensures that the Chief Security Officer is notified and informed of all suspected leak incidents.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="process-steps">
    <title>Process steps</title>
    <body>
      <note>These process steps apply to an informal leak investigation that is internal to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>. If a formal leak investigation is required, it will be identified and initiated as part of the informal leak investigation process.</note>
    </body>
    <topic id="step-1-identify-leak">
      <title>1. Identify leak</title>
      <body>
        <ol>
          <li><p>A leak investigation is requested. The request might come from any of:
            <ul>
              <li><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ciso"/>.</li>
              <li>Departmental office.</li>
              <li>Executive office.</li>
              <li>HMPPS.</li>
              <li>Ministerial office.</li>
              <li><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> agencies.</li>
              <li>Permanent Secretary.</li>
              <li>Senior Civil Servant (SCS).</li>
              <li>Other cross-government source.</li>
            </ul>
          </p></li>
          <li><p>The request indicates that a leak investigation is required. The request is submitted to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/sharedsecurityteamtext"/>.</p></li>
          <li><p>Proceed to <xref href="#step-2-forward-leak-request/2-forward-leak-request" format="dita" platform="html">step 2</xref><xref href="#step-2-forward-leak-request" format="dita" platform="epub pdf">step 2</xref>.</p></li>
        </ol>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="step-2-forward-leak-request">
      <title>2. Forward leak request</title>
      <body>
        <ol>
          <li>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/sharedsecurityteamtext"/> forwards all received requests to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/groupsecurityemailtext"/>.</li>
          <li><p>Proceed to <xref href="#step-3-is-it-a-leak/3-is-it-a-leak" format="dita" platform="html">step 3</xref><xref href="#step-3-is-it-a-leak" format="dita" platform="epub pdf">step 3</xref>.</p></li>
        </ol>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="step-3-is-it-a-leak">
      <title>3. Is it a leak?</title>
      <body>
        <ol>
          <li><p><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/groupsecurityemailtext"/> evaluates the request.</p></li>
          <li><p>If it is decided that the situation is indeed a leak, then proceed to step <xref href="#step-31-require-informal-leak-investigation/31-require-informal-leak-investigation" format="dita" platform="html">3.1</xref><xref href="#step-31-require-informal-leak-investigation" format="dita" platform="epub pdf">3.1</xref>.</p></li>
          <li><p>If it is decided that the situation is not a leak, or it is not clear whether the situation is a leak, the request is sent to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/jdsocemail"/>. Proceed to step <xref href="#step-32-information-and-sign-off-check/32-information-and-sign-off-check" format="dita" platform="html">3.2</xref><xref href="#step-32-information-and-sign-off-check" format="dita" platform="epub pdf">3.2</xref>.</p></li>
        </ol>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="step-31-require-informal-leak-investigation">
      <title>3.1. Require informal leak investigation</title>
      <body>
        <ol>
          <li><p>Group Security reviews the request to determine if a leak investigation is required.</p></li>
          <li><p>If a leak investigation is needed, go to step <xref href="#step-311-produce-informal-investigation-report/311-produce-informal-investigation-report" format="dita" platform="html">3.1.1</xref><xref href="#step-311-produce-informal-investigation-report" format="dita" platform="epub pdf">3.1.1</xref>.</p></li>
          <li><p>If a leak investigation is not needed, the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/sharedsecurityteamtext"/> notifies the Requestor that a leak investigation is not required, based on the rationale provided by Group Security. The leak process ends. No further action is required.</p></li>
        </ol>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="step-311-produce-informal-investigation-report">
      <title>3.1.1. Produce informal investigation report</title>
      <body>
        <ol>
          <li><p>Group Security produces an informal investigation report with input from the Cyber Security Team. The report describes the findings and recommendations.</p></li>
          <li><p>The report is sent to the Requestor.</p></li>
          <li><p>Proceed to step <xref href="#step-312-receive-investigation-report/312-receive-investigation-report" format="dita" platform="html">3.1.2</xref><xref href="#step-312-receive-investigation-report" format="dita" platform="epub pdf">3.1.2</xref>.</p></li>
        </ol>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="step-312-receive-investigation-report">
      <title>3.1.2. Receive investigation report</title>
      <body>
        <ol>
          <li><p>The Requestor receives the informal leak report.</p></li>
          <li><p>If the report is satisfactory, and no escalation is required or requested, the process ends. No further action is required.</p></li>
          <li><p>If the report is not satisfactory, or an escalation is required or requested, proceed to step <xref href="#step-313-escalate-leak-request/313-escalate-leak-request" format="dita" platform="html">3.1.3</xref><xref href="#step-313-escalate-leak-request" format="dita" platform="epub pdf">3.1.3</xref>.</p></li>
        </ol>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="step-313-escalate-leak-request">
      <title>3.1.3. Escalate leak request</title>
      <body>
        <ol>
          <li><p>Group Security re-evaluates the leak request, in the light of the informal leak report.</p></li>
          <li><p>Group Security signs off the informal leak request.</p></li>
          <li><p>If an escalation is required or requested, Group Security begins the process of requesting formal leak investigation.</p></li>
          <li><p>Proceed to step <xref href="#step-32-information-and-sign-off-check/32-information-and-sign-off-check" format="dita" platform="html">3.2</xref><xref href="#step-32-information-and-sign-off-check" format="dita" platform="epub pdf">3.2</xref> to continue and complete the informal leak investigation.</p></li>
        </ol>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="step-32-information-and-sign-off-check">
      <title>3.2. Information and sign off check</title>
      <body>
        <ol>
          <li><p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/jdsoc"/> Lead checks that the leak investigation request is complete with all required information and the required sign-off. This confirms the legitimacy of the investigation.</p></li>
          <li><p>If the request is incomplete or not signed off, the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/jdsoc"/> Lead connects back to the Requestor to provide this information. The process returns to step <xref href="#step-312-receive-investigation-report/312-receive-investigation-report" format="dita" platform="html">3.1.2</xref><xref href="#step-312-receive-investigation-report" format="dita" platform="epub pdf">3.1.2</xref>.</p></li>
          <li><p>If the request is complete and signed off, go to step <xref href="#step-321-create-incident/321-create-incident" format="dita" platform="html">3.2.1</xref><xref href="#step-321-create-incident" format="dita" platform="epub pdf">3.2.1</xref>.</p></li>
        </ol>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="step-321-create-incident">
      <title>3.2.1. Create incident</title>
      <body>
        <ol>
          <li><p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/jdsoc"/> Lead assigns an <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/jdsoc"/> Analyst to the request.</p></li>
          <li><p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/jdsoc"/> Analyst creates a ServiceNow 'placeholder' incident using the Technology Portal. In all cases, the title of the placeholder <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be "An investigation carried out by the SOC."</p></li>
          <li><p>Proceed to step <xref href="#step-322-collect-evidence/322-collect-evidence" format="dita" platform="html">3.2.2</xref><xref href="#step-322-collect-evidence" format="dita" platform="epub pdf">3.2.2</xref>.</p></li>
        </ol>
        <note><b>Do not include any case details within the ServiceNow incident.</b> Use the ServiceNow incident number, plus any Requester case reference numbers or descriptions, for all correspondence, case notes or tracker updates.</note>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="step-322-collect-evidence">
      <title>3.2.2. Collect evidence</title>
      <body>
        <ol>
          <li><p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/jdsoc"/> Analyst starts the leak investigation, using tools appropriate to the platform, system, or location from which the data was leaked.</p></li>
          <li><p>Evidence is collected, secured and validated with checksums, following forensic best practices.</p></li>
          <li><p>Proceed to step <xref href="#step-323-process-evidence-and-produce-report/323-process-evidence-and-produce-report" format="dita" platform="html">3.2.3</xref><xref href="#step-323-process-evidence-and-produce-report" format="dita" platform="epub pdf">3.2.3</xref>.</p></li>
        </ol>
        <note>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/jdsoc"/> Analyst <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> record all the steps taken for each request in OneNote. These contemporaneous notes <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> include supporting data, such as photos, screenshots and images. In addition, each entry <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be supported by the Analyst's comments.</note>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="step-323-process-evidence-and-produce-report">
      <title>3.2.3. Process evidence and produce report</title>
      <body>
        <ol>
          <li><p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/jdsoc"/> Analyst processes or analyses the data as needed and produces a report.</p></li>
          <li><p>Proceed to step <xref href="#step-324-close-servicenow-incident/324-close-servicenow-incident" format="dita" platform="html">3.2.4</xref><xref href="#step-324-close-servicenow-incident" format="dita" platform="epub pdf">3.2.4</xref>.</p></li>
        </ol>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="step-324-close-servicenow-incident">
      <title>3.2.4. Close ServiceNow incident</title>
      <body>
        <ol>
          <li><p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/jdsoc"/> Analyst confirms that the leak investigation request can be closed with the Requestor.</p></li>
          <li><p>When confirmation is received, the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/jdsoc"/> Analyst provides the Requestor with a concluding report outlining the findings and recommendations established during step <xref href="#step-312-receive-investigation-report/312-receive-investigation-report" format="dita" platform="html">3.1.2</xref><xref href="#step-312-receive-investigation-report" format="dita" platform="epub pdf">3.1.2</xref>.</p></li>
          <li><p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/jdsoc"/> Analyst updates and closes the ServiceNow Incident.</p></li>
          <li><p>Proceed to step <xref href="#step-325-update-tracker-and-onenote/325-update-tracker-and-onenote" format="dita" platform="html">3.2.5</xref><xref href="#step-325-update-tracker-and-onenote" format="dita" platform="epub pdf">3.2.5</xref>.</p></li>
        </ol>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="step-325-update-tracker-and-onenote">
      <title>3.2.5. Update Tracker and OneNote</title>
      <body>
        <ol>
          <li><p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/jdsoc"/> Analyst updates the Tracker spreadsheet in Teams and the OneNote record.</p></li>
          <li><p>The process ends.</p></li>
        </ol>
        <note>Information <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be retained and recorded as set out in the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> information retention policy. Guidance on what to keep is <xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/guidance/knowledge-information/managing-information/keeping-deleting-disclosing-info/" format="html" scope="external">available</xref>.</note>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="who-to-contact-if-a-leak-is-suspected">
    <title>Who to contact if a leak is suspected</title>
    <body>
      <p>Contact <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/securityemail"/>.</p>
      <note>To log a security incidents during UK working hours, you must report it using the process on the <xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/guidance/security/report-a-security-incident/" format="html" scope="external">Reporting a Security Incident</xref> page of the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Intranet.</note>   
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#contact-details"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
