<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="leavers-with-nsc-and-nscvs">
  <title>Leavers with NSC and NSVCs</title>
  <body>
    <p>This information applies to people leaving the
      <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/>,
    who have National Security Vetting (NSV),
    or who are National Security Vetting Contacts (NSVCs).</p>
    <p>Staff or contractors that hold clearance of any level
      <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> attend an
      exit interview with their manager before they leave the
      <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.
      Although these interviews are available for all staff,
      they are compulsory for those with Counter Terrorist Clearance
      (CTC) or Security Check (SC).</p>
      <p>If the leaver holds Developed Vetting (DV) or SC enhanced level,
        and has been STRAP inducted,
        they <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
        attend a mandatory STRAP debriefing interview with
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/strapteamemailtext"/>.
        They <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> also sign a
        confidentiality agreement and a "Declaration of Cessation
        of <codeph>TOP SECRET</codeph> STRAP Access".</p>
  </body>
  <topic id="nsvcs-who-leave">
    <title>NSVCs who leave</title>
    <body>
      <p>The post of National Security Vetting Contact (NSVC)
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshouldnot"/> be left empty.
        NSVCs <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> work with
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/groupsecurityemailtext"/>
        to ensure that a replacement has been selected,
        and trained,
        to take over once they have left.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="manager-responsibilities">
    <title>Manager responsibilities</title>
    <body>
      <p>When a member of staff with clearance leaves their department,
        the manager <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> inform their NSVC,
        so that the NSVC can update their records and remove the staff member
        from the list of cleared personnel.
        The NSVC passes the leaver's details on to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/cluster2securityunittext"/>.        
        Managers <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> also use this
        as an opportunity to take another look at the role,
        and confirm whether it still needs clearance and,
        if it does,
        to what level.
        The NSVC can advise managers on this analysis.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="downloads">
    <title>Downloads</title>
    <body>
      <ul>
        <li><xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/documents/2016/08/national-security-vetting-contact-guide.docx" format="docx" scope="external">National Security Vetting Contact Guide</xref>.</li>
        <li><xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/documents/2019/08/national-security-vetting-contacts-register.xlsx" format="xlsx" scope="external">National Security Vetting Contact Register</xref>.</li>
        <li><xref href="file:///./gs/security-vetting-assessment-need.doc" format="doc" scope="external">National Security Vetting Assessment of Need</xref>.</li>
      </ul>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="related-information">
    <title>Related information</title>
    <body>
      <ul>
        <li><xref href="end-or-change-of-employment.dita" format="dita">End or change employment</xref>.</li>
      </ul>
    </body>
  </topic>
	<topic id="contact-details-group-security" conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/contact-details-group-security"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html epub" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
