<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="line-manager-approval">
  <title>Line Manager approval</title>
  <body>
    <p>This guidance applies to all staff and contractors who work for the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/>.</p>
    <p>Some <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT Policy documents need you to get a review or approval from a Line Manager or other senior person.
    Do this before taking an action or working in a particular way.</p>
    <p audience="audience-basic audience-tech">Examples include:
    <ul>
      <li><xref href="general-advice-on-taking-equipment-abroad.dita" format="dita">General advice on taking equipment abroad</xref>.</li>
      <li><xref href="personal-devices.dita" format="dita">Security Guidance for Using a Personal Device</xref>.</li>
    </ul></p>
    <p>This guidance describes what you should do. The guidance contains steps to follow for <xref href="#steps-to-follow-line-managers" format="dita">Line Managers</xref>, and their <xref href="#steps-to-follow-direct-reports" format="dita">Direct Reports</xref>.</p>
  </body>
  <topic id="steps-to-follow-line-managers">
    <title>Steps to follow (Line Managers)</title>
    <body>
      <note id="justask">If at any time you need help about this process, or the applicable <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT Policies, just ask: <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/securityemail"/>.</note>
      <ol>
        <li>Check that your direct report (DR) has said what they want in their request.
          The request should identify which <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT Policies apply.</li>
        <li>Check that the request is valid from a business perspective.
          If not, deny the request (<xref href="#steps-to-follow-line-managers/step7" format="dita">step 7</xref> ).</li>
        <li>Check that <xref href="acceptable-use.dita" format="dita">Acceptable Use</xref> is in the list of applicable policies.</li>
        <li>Review the requirements or obligations within the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT Policies that apply to the request.</li>
        <li>Check that the DR understands and will follow the requirements or obligations.
          For example, have a discussion with them, or ask them for more information or evidence.</li>
        <li>If they are able to follow the applicable <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT Policies, send a formal approval to the DR.
        An email is enough for this.</li>
        <li id="step7">If you don't think they can follow the Policies, or there's a weak business case for the request, refuse it.</li>
        <li>Keep a copy of your formal reply, in accord with Data Retention requirements.</li>
        <li>Some <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT Policies need a copy of formal approval for other parties. For example, before your DR travels to some countries on <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> business, send a copy of your approval to Operational Security: <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ostemail"/>.</li>
      </ol>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="steps-to-follow-direct-reports">
    <title>Steps to follow (Direct Reports)</title>
    <body>
      <note conref="#steps-to-follow-line-managers/justask"/>
      <ol>
        <li>Check that your business need is valid.</li>
        <li>Check which <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT Policies apply to your request.
        Include <xref href="acceptable-use.dita" format="dita">Acceptable Use</xref> in the list of applicable policies.</li>
        <li>Check that you understand the requirements or obligations within those <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT Policies.</li>
        <li>Prepare evidence to show that you will follow all the requirements or obligations.
          Check that you have all the required information.</li>
        <li>Send a formal approval request to the authorities required by the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT Policies. Ensure that you include:
      <ul>
        <li>Your request.</li>
        <li>The business case.</li>
        <li>The list of applicable <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT Policies.</li>
        <li>Evidence that you understand and can follow the requirements or obligations.</li>
      </ul></li>
        <li>Be ready to have a more detailed discussion about your request, or to supply more information.</li>
        <li>If you get formal approval, keep a copy, in accord with Data Retention requirements.</li>
        <li>If your request is denied, check that you understand the reasons.
          Use this understanding to tackle your business task again, if appropriate.</li>
      </ol>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#contact-details"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="feedback" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
