<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="locking-and-shutdown">
  <title>Locking and shutdown</title>
  <topic id="general">
    <title>General</title>
    <body>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> has made a commitment towards sustainable IT.
        The intentions are:
      <ul>
        <li>To reduce overall power consumption for the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
        by switching off machines and saving energy.</li>
        <li>To reduce the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s overall carbon footprint.</li>
      </ul></p>
    </body>
    <topic id="how-do-i-shutdown-my-desktop-computer">
      <title>How do I shutdown my desktop computer?</title>
      <body>
        <ul>
          <li>Close all applications.</li>
          <li>Shut down the computer by clicking the 'Start' button at the bottom left hand corner of the screen.
            Next, click 'Shut Down'.</li>
          <li>A pop-up box will appear with a drop-down box. Select 'Shut Down' and click 'OK'.
            After a short delay, your computer will automatically shut down.</li>
          <li>Switch off your monitor screen.</li>
        </ul>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="what-are-the-benefits">
      <title>What are the benefits?</title>
      <body>
        <p>By switching off our computers at the end of each working day,
          we are contributing towards being energy efficient and environmentally friendly.
          We are all responsible for our own Carbon Footprint.
          So, please switch off your PC monitor along with your desktop computer at the end of each working day.
          In addition, please switch off any other PC monitors if you notice they too have been left on overnight.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="what-if-there-are-any-issues-preventing-you-from-switching-off-your-computer">
      <title>What if there are any issues preventing you from switching off your computer?</title>
      <body>
        <p>If there are any issues preventing you from switching off your desktop computer overnight,
          then please raise this with the <xref href="#general-enquiries-including-theft-and-loss" format="dita">IT Service Desk</xref> immediately
          as there could be an underlying fault that needs resolving.</p>
        <p>If you require any further information regarding this policy,
          <xref href="#contact-details" format="dita">ask for help</xref>.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="locking-your-computer-sessions">
      <title>Locking your computer sessions</title>
      <body>
        <p>Access to most computer systems is controlled by a user name and password.
          If you have the correct information, you are able to 'log in' or 'log on'.
          The user name identifies the user as a valid user of the system and the password authenticates that the user is who they say they are.</p>
        <p>You are responsible for what you do with an <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> system or service.
          You might be held responsible for any actions carried out using your user name and password.
          You must therefore not allow any one else to do work on any system using your user name and password.
          If you leave your computer logged on when you are away from it,
          it might be possible for sensitive information held on the computer system to be used,
          read, changed, printed or copied by someone not authorised to see it.</p>
        <p>If you are leaving your computer unattended for a short period of time,
          'lock' the computer by activating the password protected screen saver or similar 'locking' facility.
          A simple and quick way to lock a Windows computer is:
        <ol><li>To LOCK - press the Windows key and L key, at the same time.</li>
        <li>To UNLOCK - press the Ctrl, Alt and Delete keys, at the same time, then log in as normal.</li></ol>
        A simple and quick way to lock a Mac computer is:
        <ol><li>To LOCK - press the Ctrl, Cmd and Q keys, at the same time.</li>
          <li>To UNLOCK - move the mouse or press any key, then log in as normal.</li></ol></p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="laptops">
    <title>Laptops</title>
    <topic id="background">
      <title>Background</title>
      <body>
        <p>All <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> laptops have hard disk encryption installed.
          This protects the entire contents of a laptop's hard disk drive to prevent any data stored locally
          from being accessed in the event the laptop is either lost or stolen.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="incident">
      <title>Incident</title>
      <body>
        <p>Investigations into security incidents indicate that a common reason for problems is where the correct
          security procedures are not being followed.
          For example, laptops are being left logged on overnight.</p>
        <p>This is not good security practice.</p>
        <p>If a device is lost or stolen whilst the machine is in locked mode,
          the data on the machine is more vulnerable to a potential security breach.</p>
        <p>Leaving the laptop in <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> premises is not sufficient to guarantee
          the equipment's security.
          Laptop losses do sometimes occur within <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> offices.
          There is a greater risk of data loss when a laptop is left partially logged on overnight,
          so you should always fully log off the laptop at the end of your working day.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="what-you-need-to-do">
      <title>What you need to do</title>
      <body>
        <ul>
          <li>Switch off the machine completely at the end of each usage.</li>
          <li>Do not attach the password to the machine or keep the password with the machine.</li>
        </ul>
        <p>If you need further assistance or information about this process,
          <xref href="#contact-details" format="dita">ask for help</xref>.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="general-enquiries-including-theft-and-loss" conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/general-enquiries-including-theft-and-loss"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/contact-details"><title/></topic>
</topic>
