<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="mail-check">
  <title>Mail Check</title>
  <topic id="the-service">
    <title>The service</title>
    <body>
      <p>The <xref href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/blog-post/helping-secure-public-sector-email-mail-check" format="html" scope="external">Mail Check Service</xref> from NCSC is part of the <xref href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/blog-post/active-cyber-defence-tackling-cyber-attacks-uk" format="html" scope="external">Active Cyber Defence</xref> suite of services.</p>
      <p>The service helps public sector email administrators improve and maintain the security of their email domains by preventing spoof email.</p>
      <p>Domains operated by, or on behalf of, the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> <b>must</b> be added to Mail Check under at least the central <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Mail Check account.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="when-to-use-the-service">
    <title>When to use the service</title>
    <body>
      <p>Mail Check (and the underlying DMARC and SPF configurations) <b>must</b> be implemented regardless of whether the domain is expected to send or receive emails on a routine basis.</p>
      <p>This is important to ensure domains that are not expected to send emails are still monitored for being spoofed, as they are still legitimate <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> domains which attackers may attempt to exploit in order to attack users.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="how-to-use-the-service">
    <title>How to use the service</title>
    <topic id="requirements">
      <title>Requirements</title>
      <body>
        <p>The email domain name is required. It must be publicly contactable for SMTP from the general Internet.</p>
        <p>DMARC (which requires SPF and DKIM) TXT records must be available for creation or iteration, as per the <xref href="https://www.gov.uk/guidance/set-up-government-email-services-securely#create-and-iterate-dmarc-records" format="html" scope="external">GOV.UK DMARC configuration guide page</xref>.</p>
        <p><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> is permitted to use the service for free as a central government organisation, but suppliers to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> currently are not.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="get-started">
      <title>Get started</title>
      <body>
        <p>Contact the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Cyber Security team to be added into <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s subscription of the service.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
