<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="minimum-user-clearance-requirements-guide">
  <title>Minimum User Clearance Requirements Guide</title>
  <topic id="introduction">
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <body>
      <p>This Minimum User Clearance Requirements Guide outlines the level of security clearance required
for staff in order to access specific account types.<ph audience="audience-tech"> This is a sub-page to the <xref href="access-control-guide.dita" format="dita" type="topic">Access Control Guide</xref>.</ph></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="security-clearance-levels">
  	<title>Security clearance levels</title>
  	<body>
  	<p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> uses the <xref href="https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/united-kingdom-security-vetting-clearance-levels" format="html" scope="external">national security vetting clearance levels</xref>:
  	<ul>
  		<li>Baseline Personnel Security Standard (BPSS)</li>
  		<li>Counter Terrorist Check (CTC)</li>
  		<li>Security Check (SC)</li>
  		<li>Developed Vetting (DV)</li>
  	</ul></p>
  	<p>Where appropriate, Enhanced checks apply, for example Enhanced Security Check (eSC).</p>
  	</body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="minimum-user-clearance-requirements">
    <title>Minimum user clearance requirements</title>
    <body>
      <p>Most of the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems are able to process <codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph> information. Therefore all roles in the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
require staff to attain BPSS clearance as a minimum to be
granted access rights to view <codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph> information. Some roles require staff to have higher clearance.</p>
      <p>For an individual to perform any of the following tasks, clearance higher than BPSS is required:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Has long term, regular, unsupervised access to data centres or communications rooms.</li>
        <li>Has regular privileged unsupervised and unconstrained access to systems which contain data for multiple <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> systems, for example backups, or console access to multiple cloud services.</li>
        <li>Has cryptography responsibilities and handling, under advice from the Crypto Custodian.</li>
        <li>Has access to multiple system security testing outcomes which reveal vulnerabilities in live services.</li>
        <li>Has a role such as system support or IT investigation role, such that without further authority or authorisation, an individual might:
          <ul>
            <li>Act as another user.</li>
            <li>Obtain credentials for another user.</li>
            <li>Directly access other users' data.</li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
      <p>If an individual does not need to perform any of the above tasks, then BPSS, DBS or Enhanced Check is sufficient.</p>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> HQ and Executive Agencies might have additional, specific requirements for DV/DV STRAP clearance for individual systems. These requirements should be followed where applicable.</p>
      <p>Please contact the Cyber Assistance Team and refer to the <xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/guidance/hr/recruitment/security-vetting/" format="html" scope="external">Vetting Policy</xref> for further information.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="checking-someones-clearance-status">
  	<title>Checking someone's clearance status</title>
  	<body>
  		<p>To check someone's clearance status, collect the following information:
  		<ul>
  			<li>Their firstname.</li>
  			<li>Their lastname.</li>
  			<li>Their date of birth.</li>
 		</ul></p>
 		<p>Send this information to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Group Security Team, by emailing: <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/groupsecurityemail"/>. The team will check with the Cluster, to determine the individual's clearance status, if any. If you are authorised to receive the answer, the team will reply to you with the answer.</p>
  	</body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="contact-details">
    <title>Contact details</title>
    <body>
      <p>Contact the Cyber Assistance Team for advice - <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/catemail"/></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
</topic>
