<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="multi-factor-authentication-mfa-guide">
  <title>Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) Guide</title>
  <topic id="introduction">
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <body>
      <p>This Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) guide explains how MFA is used to ensure that users are only granted access to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> information once their identity is confirmed. This is a sub-page to the <xref href="access-control-guide.dita" format="dita" type="topic">Access Control Guide</xref>.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="mfa">
    <title>MFA</title>
    <body>
      <p>Users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> have their identity authenticated through one or more of the following methods:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <p>Something they know, such as a password.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Something they have, such as a mobile phone or smart card.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Something they are, using biometric authentication such as a fingerprint.</p>
        </li>
      </ul>
      <p>MFA can be used as a possession-based factor for authentication, by checking for something 'you have'. MFA is sometimes referred to as Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) if it involves a second form of authentication. MFA is referred to as 3, 4, or 5 Factor Authentication if it includes additional authentication requirements. Different methods of additional authentication identify users with varying degrees of accuracy.  Care <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> be taken to ensure true MFA. For example, password and security questions are both dependent on 'something the user knows' and therefore are just one factor of authentication.</p>
      <p>The following list identifies the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s preference for MFA methods, with 1 ranked the highest, and 8 the least desirable. These methods can be used for 2, 3, 4, or 5 Factor Authentication as required.</p>
      <note>
      <ul>
        <li>MFA Type 1 might not be suitable for all systems.
          In that case, other methods of delivering MFA <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> be considered to enable additional protection beyond single sign on.</li>
        <li>MFA types 5 and 8 <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> only be used when no other MFA method is appropriate. The reason is that these methods are more easily spoofed or circumvented.</li>
      </ul></note>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="3*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Preference</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">1.</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Hardware-based. For example, a Yubikey or similar TPM enabled device is presented during the authentication process.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">2.</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Software-based. For example, a <xref href="https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/6361026?co=GENIE.Platform%3DAndroid&amp;hl=en" format="html" scope="external">Google Prompt</xref> is presented on a registered mobile device.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">3.</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Time-based One Time Password (TOTP)-based. The code is held by a dedicated app, such as Google Authenticator, on a mobile device.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">4.</entry>
              <entry colname="col2"><xref href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time-based_One-time_Password_algorithm" format="html" scope="external">TOTP</xref>-based.
                The code is held within a multi-purpose app, for example a password manager app that also holds other authentication information.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">5.</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Certificate-based. A digital certificate is used to authenticate a user.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">6.</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Email-based. A one-time code or link is sent to the user's registered on-file email address.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">7.</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">SMS-based. A one-time code is sent to the user through an SMS message.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">8.</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Phone-call based. An automated phone call is made to the user's registered on-file phone number, to provide a one-time code or password.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <note>When sending a one-time code to a mobile device, for example an SMS or phone call, the connection <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> only be to a single user account. In other words, only telephone numbers allocated to a single individual <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymay"/> be used. Sending a one-time code to a shared device or shared number is not permitted.</note>
      <!--  audience="audience-basic audience-tech" -->
      <p>The <xref href="passwords.dita" format="dita"><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Password Guide</xref> provides more information on the use of MFA.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#contact-details"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
