<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?path2rootmap-uri ./?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="multi-user-accounts-and-public-facing-service-accounts-guide">
	<title>Multi-user accounts and Public-Facing Service Accounts Guide</title>
	<body/>
	<topic id="introduction">
		<title>Introduction</title>
		<body>
			<p>This guide sets out when multi-user accounts should be used, although this is discouraged and should be avoided if possible.
			The guide also explains how public-facing service accounts should be authenticated.
			For more information, see the <xref href="password-management-guide.dita" format="dita" type="topic">Password Management Guide</xref>.</p>
			<p>This guide has been written in alignment with <xref href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/collection/passwords/updating-your-approach" scope="external" format="html">NCSC guidance</xref>.</p>
		</body>
	</topic>
	<topic id="multi-user-accounts">
		<title>Multi-user accounts</title>
		<body>
			<p>In this context, a multi-user account is where a single set of credentials is used by more than one person.
			This can be found on legacy systems where there is a dedicated administrator account.
			Multi-user accounts allow multiple users with individual logins and varying permissions to use the same account.
			Multi-user accounts need to be managed carefully using <xref href="privileged-account-management-guide.dita" format="dita">Privileged Account Management</xref> (PAM) or a Bastion server to avoid security risks associated with accountability.
			Multi-user accounts should only be used directly if there is no alternative.</p>
			<p>Note: A <xref href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bastion_host" scope="external" format="html">Bastion server</xref> is a specially strengthened system that provides access to parts of the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> private network from an external network, such as the Internet. It provide specific access to to a well-defined set of servers or services, rather than permitting general access across the network.</p>
			<p>The multi-user account checklist requires that you:
			<ul>
				<li>Undertake a Business Impact Assessment (BIA) before implementation of a multi-user account to understand risks posed to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.
				<p>Note: The BIA provides details on how the business views the impact to their information assets and services following a loss of Confidentiality, Integrity or Availability.
				This is useful because it provides a steer on what types of incidents result in the highest impact to the business and how tolerant the business is to a loss of service provision.
				For help on creating a BIA, contact the Cyber Assistance Team: <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/catemail"/>.</p></li>
				<li>Create a pre-defined and authorised list of users.</li>
				<li>Implement using the 'need to know' access principle on the PAM. Alternatively, if using a bastion host, see what options there are to enforce this principle.</li>
				<li>Regularly check for redundant user IDs and accounts on either the PAM or bastion hosts. These should then be blocked or removed.</li>
			</ul></p>
		</body>
	</topic>
	<topic id="public-facing-services">
		<title>Public-facing services</title>
		<body>
			<p>Developers and administrators should ensure that front-end users who access the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> public-facing services or applications are authenticated through the GOV.UK Verify Service.
			When this is not possible, for example when an individual does not have a UK address, passwords must:
			<ul>
				<!--
				<li>Be different for each service used by the individual.</li>
				-->
				<li>Be easy to use, for example, pasting passwords into web forms should be enabled.</li>
				<li>Not be forcibly changed simply as a result of a period of time passing. However, passwords and other account access mechanisms must be revoked for an individual when they are no longer authorised to work with the account.</li>
				<li>Use Two Factor Authentication (the <xref href="password-creation-and-authentication-guide.dita" format="dita" type="topic">Password Creation and Authentication Guide</xref> provides further advice).</li>
				<li>Be changed when required, for example after a system compromise is identified, or if the limit of unsuccessful password attempts is reached and the account is locked.</li>
				<li>Be reset using a one-time password.</li>
			</ul></p>
			<p>The <xref href="password-creation-and-authentication-guide.dita" format="dita" type="topic">Password Creation and Authentication Guide</xref> provides further guidance creating a strong and complex password.</p>
		</body>
	</topic>
	<topic id="service-accounts">
		<title>Service accounts</title>
		<body>
			<p>Service accounts must be used for system and application authentication at a privileged level.
			Service accounts must use certificates for authentication, however if these cannot be used, then passwords are an acceptable alternative.
			The <xref href="password-creation-and-authentication-guide.dita" format="dita" type="topic">Password Creation and Authentication Guide</xref> provides further guidance on how you must create a strong and complex password.</p>
		</body>
	</topic>
	<topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/contact-details">
		<title/>
	</topic>
</topic>
