<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="national-security-vetting-contact">
  <title>National Security Vetting contact</title>
  <body>
    <p>All business areas in the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> enrol or appoint a National Security Vetting Contact (NSVC) to help business areas progress and monitor applications for security clearance.</p>
    <p>Most applications for National Security Vetting (NSV) clearance including Counter Terrorist Clearance (CTC), Security Check (SC), and Developed Vetting (DV) come through recruitment campaigns or are agency staff or contractors.</p>
    <p>Some business areas employ large number of NSV-cleared people and those clearances need to be managed and monitored. The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> recognises that many personnel are contractors and agency staff, often with clearances held elsewhere. The NSVC <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> facilitate the process and provide the business with a single point of contact and liaison with the National Security Vetting Team and Shared Services Connected Limited (SSCL).</p>
  </body>
  <topic id="roles-and-responsibilities">
    <title>Roles and responsibilities</title>
    <body>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <p>NSVCs are a mandatory role and one <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be appointed if there are National Security Vetted staff in any business area.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>NSVCs <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> undergo the Baseline Personnel Security Standard (BPSS) check as a minimum, and be registered with <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/groupsecurityemailtext"/>. How many NSVCs a business area needs is for Senior Managers to determine, based on how they are organised. For example, how many NSV clearances need processing and maintenance.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>NSVCs monitor the progress of all applications for an NSV clearance and <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> maintain a register of all active NSV personnel within their business area.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>NSVCs <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> provide the authorisation and complete the SSCL <xref href="https://moj.myhub.sscl.com/fast-forms/forms-a-z" format="html" scope="external">Clearance Request Form</xref> that confirms the level of clearance required for that person. SSCL will not process an application if an NSV matrix code is not supplied by the NSVC.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>NSVCs act as a single point of contact for their business area for SSCL and <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> security to speed up the NSV process.</p>
        </li>
      </ul>
      <p>For further information regarding roles, responsibilities and necessary security clearances, contact <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/groupsecurityemail"/>.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="registration">
    <title>Registration</title>
    <body>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <p>To register with <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/groupsecurityemailtext"/>, complete the <xref href="#downloads" format="dita">Registration Form in the Downloads section</xref> at the bottom of this page, and return it to the email address provided in the form.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>On registration, <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/groupsecurityemailtext"/> provides the NSVC with the documents they need to manage the process and confirm registration with SSCL.</p>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="downloads">
    <title>Downloads</title>
    <body>
        <p>The following downloads are available from the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Intranet.
      <ul>
        <li>
          <p><xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/documents/2016/08/national-security-vetting-contact-guide.doc" format="doc" scope="external">National Security Vetting contact guide</xref>.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p><xref href="file:///./gs/national-security-vetting-contact-form.pdf" format="pdf" scope="external" platform="html">National Security Vetting contact registration form</xref><xref href="https://security-guidance.service.justice.gov.uk/gs/national-security-vetting-contact-form.pdf" format="pdf" scope="external" platform="epub pdf">National Security Vetting contact registration form</xref></p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p><xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/documents/2019/08/national-security-vetting-contacts-register.xlsx" format="xlsx" scope="external">National Security Vetting contacts register</xref>.</p>
        </li>
      </ul></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
    <topic id="feedback" platform="html" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
