<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="national-security-vetting-for-external-candidates-faq">
  <title>National Security Vetting for External Candidates FAQ</title>
    <body>
      <p>This document provides recruiting managers with answers to
      frequently-asked questions regarding National Security Vetting
      for external candidates.</p>
      <p>The processes described in this document are under continual
        review as part of the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/>
        "simpler processes" activities.
        These FAQs will be updated as required.</p>
    </body>
  <topic id="section-1-directly-employed-staff">
    <title>Section 1: Directly employed staff</title>
    <body/>
    <topic id="q1-how-does-the-vacancy-manager-know-what-level-of-clearance-a-role-requires">
      <title>Q1. How does the vacancy manager know what level of clearance a role requires?</title>
      <body>
        <p>Vacancy managers <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
          always advertise their roles with the correct level of clearance required.
          Levels of clearance are defined by the requirements of the role being filled,
          not by the level of clearance the candidate already possesses.
          Your National Security Vetting Contact (NSVC) can confirm whether your role
          requires national security vetting in addition to pre-employment checks.
          Wrongly classifying roles at advert stage leads to delays in on-boarding.</p>
        <p><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/nsvc-contact"/></p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="q2-what-is-the-pre-employment-check-process">
      <title>Q2. What is the pre-employment check process?</title>
      <body>
        <p>This depends on how the candidate is being recruited
          and their level in the organisation.</p>
        <p><b>Bands A-F (non-SCS) recruited through fair and open recruitment</b>
        <ul>
          <li>All candidates <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
            undergo pre-employment checks relevant to the role.</li>
          <li>SSCL will inform applicants to bring their Right To Work (RTW),
            ID and address documentation to interview.</li>
          <li>Line managers <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
            check these documents,
            make a note of the document reference numbers
            and input these into Oleeo at the Interview Scores Entered stage.</li>
          <li>If the applicant is successful at interview,
            SSCL will make a provisional offer
            and ask the candidate to upload copies of the same RTW,
            ID and address documents into Oleeo.</li>
          <li>If NSV is required for the role
            (as indicated by the vacancy manager in the advert),
            SSCL will also send a link to the candidate so they can complete an
            on-line security questionnaire on the NSVS portal.</li>
        </ul></p>
        <p><b>SCS Grades</b>
        <ul>
          <li>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> SCSBP team
            work closely with the Government Recruitment Service (GRS),
            who manage the SCS recruitment campaigns through
            open and fair competition.</li>
          <li>GRS notify the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
            SCSBP Team of the successful candidate at interview stage.</li>
          <li>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> SCSBP team
            contact the candidate to initiate the on-boarding process
            and send the candidate forms to complete so that SSCL can
            prepare and issue their contract.</li>
          <li>SCSBP team also arrange a date to meet the candidate
            and verify their identity documents.
            These details are used to complete the Clearance Request Form (CRF)
            and send this to SSCL through the NSVC in the business area.</li>
          <li>Once SSCL process the CRF,
            a link is sent to the candidate in an email
            to complete the required security checks on the NSVS portal.</li>
        </ul></p>
        <p><b>Non-directly employed staff</b></p>
        <p>Refer to <xref href="#section-2-staff-recruited-from-external-sources-non-directly-employed"
          format="dita">Section 2</xref>.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="q3-how-long-do-the-pre-employment-and-vetting-checks-take">
      <title>Q3. How long do the pre-employment and vetting checks take?</title>
      <body>
        <p>Clearances can involve multiple teams depending on the level of check.</p>
        <p>If all information and the correct documents have been provided,
          the timescales are:
        <ul>
          <li>Baseline Personnel Security Standard (BPSS): average six days.</li>
          <li>Disclosure Barring Service (DBS) standard checks:
            New checks: average five days.</li>
          <li>Disclosure Barring Service (DBS) enhanced checks:
            New checks: average six days.</li>
          <li>Counter terrorist check (CTC): new checks: minimum six weeks.</li>
          <li>Security clearance (SC): new checks: minimum six weeks.</li>
          <li>Developed vetting (DV): new checks: minimum 18 weeks.</li>
        </ul></p>
        <p>Although the majority of DBS enhanced checks are completed
          in six working days,
          in some parts of the country police authorities quote
          an estimated response time of six to seven weeks.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="section-2-staff-recruited-from-external-sources-non-directly-employed">
    <title>Section 2: Staff recruited from external sources (non-directly employed)</title>
    <body>
      <p>As well as any clearance,
        all staff joining the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> from
        external sources (non-directly employed) are required to complete a BPSS check.</p>
      <p>Non-directly employed workers include the following:
      <ul>
        <li>Consultants.</li>
        <li>Contractors.</li>
        <li>Agency staff.</li>
        <li>Fee-Paid workers.</li>
      </ul></p>
      <p>Managers <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
        ensure that these applicants undergo the mandatory BPSS checks covering:
        identity,
        nationality,
        immigration,
        Right To Work (RTW),
        employment history,
        and criminal records checks.
        SSCL will not conduct these checks.</p>
      <p>For posts that require NSV:
      <ul>
        <li>The vacancy manager <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
          discuss this with their NSVC
          and obtain a code which needs to be entered on the CRF submitted to SSCL.</li>
        <li><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/nsvc-contact"/></li>
        <li>SSCL only accepts requests with a valid vetting reference code provided on the CRF.</li>
        <li>SSCL sends a link to the candidate so they can
          complete their on-line security questionnaire on the NSVS portal.</li>
      </ul></p>
      <p>To progress NSV applications,
        SSCL requires evidence of completion of BPSS checks from
        the contractor or agency before NSV can be initiated.
        If you need more information,
        contact SSCL on 0845 241 5359 (option 1).</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="section-3-national-security-vetting">
    <title>Section 3: National security vetting</title>
    <body/>
    <topic id="q1-what-is-national-security-vetting-nsv">
      <title>Q1. What is National Security Vetting (NSV)?</title>
      <body>
        <p>There are three levels of national security clearance:
        <ul>
          <li>Counter terrorist check (CTC).</li>
          <li>Security clearance (SC).</li>
          <li>Developed vetting (DV).</li>
        </ul></p>
        <p>These are mandatory for certain job roles and locations
          throughout the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</p>
        <p>You need the appropriate level of national security clearance if:
        <ul>
          <li>You have a proximity to public figures
            who have been assessed to be at risk from terrorist attack.</li>
          <li>You work in a role which has the potential to cause significant
            damage to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> or its assets.</li>
        </ul></p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="q2-how-long-does-national-security-vetting-take">
      <title>Q2. How long does national security vetting take?</title>
      <body>
        <p>Refer to <xref href="#q3-how-long-do-the-pre-employment-and-vetting-checks-take" format="dita">Q3, Section 1</xref>.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="q3-national-security-vetting-takes-too-long-can-the-candidate-start-at-bpss-and-apply-for-nsv-once-they-are-in-post">
      <title>Q3. National Security Vetting takes too long,
        can the candidate start at BPSS and apply for NSV once they are in post?</title>
      <body>
        <p>If NSV is required for a position,
          candidates <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshouldnot"/> start
          until their NSV is confirmed.</p>
        <p>In exceptional circumstances,
          a policy dispensation request can be made to
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/groupsecurityemail"/>,
          who will give a recommendation on whether to grant or refuse the request.
          Any risk mitigation measures deemed to be required will
          also be provided for the Senior Security Advisor and the business unit to sign-up to.</p>
        <p>Contractors and Agency staff,
          who <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> have their NSV
          in place before they start,
          should contact their NSVC in the first instance.
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/nsvc-contact"/></p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="section-4-national-security-vetting-applications">
    <title>Section 4: National Security Vetting Applications</title>
    <body/>
    <topic id="q1-i-submitted-an-nsv-request-several-weeks-ago-how-do-i-see-its-status">
      <title>Q1. I submitted an NSV request several weeks ago,
        how do I find out its status?</title>
      <body>
        <p>If you require confirmation of the security clearance level,
          ask your NSVC who will make enquiries for you.
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/nsvc-contact"/></p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="q2-sscl-have-told-me-that-they-have-completed-sponsors-actions-what-does-that-mean">
      <title>Q2. SSCL have told me that they have completed sponsors' actions,
        what does that mean?</title>
      <body>
        <p>It means that your security questionnaire has been forwarded to
          United Kingdom Security Vetting (UKSV),
          and the vetting process has started.
          All actions are complete at the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>,
          and there are no further actions until UKSV return the file with a decision.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="q3-why-is-the-candidate-required-to-fill-in-forms-on-the-nsvs-portal-and-provide-information-that-may-already-be-held-elsewhere-in-the-recruitment-process">
      <title>Q3. Why is the candidate required to fill in forms on the NSVS portal,
        and provide information that may already be held elsewhere
        in the recruitment process?</title>
      <body>
        <p>NSV is a separate process and is not HR-related.
          For legal reasons,
          we often ask questions to confirm facts.
          Even if we have that information elsewhere,
          we still require confirmation.
          It is usually easier to gather everything we need in one process;
          the alternative would be to repeatedly ask for further information.
          Experience has shown that this causes significant delay.
          We don't ask for information that we do not need.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="q4-what-if-the-candidate-doesnt-complete-specific-dates-and-details-for-the-security-questionnaire">
      <title>Q4. What if the candidate doesn't complete specific dates and details for the Security Questionnaire?</title>
      <body>
        <p>All information declared on the Security Questionnaire
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be completed
          in full and to the best of the candidate's knowledge.
          If certain dates or information are not known,
          they should include an explanation in the information box provided.
          Missing or incorrect data delays the application,
          as the file is referred to a vetting officer who needs
          to investigate and find the missing data.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="q5-what-happens-if-the-candidate-misses-information-out">
      <title>Q5. What happens if the candidate misses information out?</title>
      <body>
        <p>We cannot give too much detail about the vetting process
          for security reasons.
          However,
          we can confirm that your information is checked in a variety of
          systems and databases.
          If information is mismatched,
          it forces the file to be referred to a vetting officer.
          This intervention causes significant delay.
          Thirteen percent of all NSV cases are rejected because the
          subject doesn't provide their official middle name(s).
          It is also not unusual for people to put the wrong date of birth.</p>
          <p>It is crucial that accurate information is provided.
            It really helps vet people more quickly.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="q6-my-candidate-applied-for-national-security-vetting-some-time-ago-and-hasnt-heard-anything-who-can-i-check-this-with">
      <title>Q6. My candidate applied for national security vetting some time ago and hasn't heard anything,
        who can I check this with?</title>
      <body>
        <p>SC/CTC each take a minimum of six weeks,
          with an average of nine weeks.
          DV takes at least 18 weeks.
          If this time frame has passed,
          contact the NSVC who requested the clearance.
          They can contact SSCL for an update.</p>
        <p><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/nsvc-contact"/></p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="q7-why-cant-candidates-use-apple-products-to-submit-the-security-questionnaire">
      <title>Q7. Why can't candidates use Apple products to submit the security questionnaire?</title>
      <body>
        <p>NSVS is run by UKSV.
          There are very strict controls in place to make certain that the information
          you provide is secure.
          Apple products work in a different way.
          UKSV can't be assured,
          by Apple,
          that their platform is secure.</p>
        <p>We do not expect that this will change in the foreseeable future.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="section-5-changes-to-roles-or-personal-circumstances">
    <title>Section 5: Changes to roles or personal circumstances</title>
    <body>
      <p>This section contains information for managers and staff who are already
        in the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>,
        and have changes to their roles or personal circumstances:</p>
    </body>
    <topic id="q1-i-am-a-manager-and-i-think-a-member-of-my-team-needs-a-national-security-vetting-clearance-to-do-a-new-piece-of-work-what-should-i-do">
      <title>Q1. I am a manager and I think a member of my team needs a national security
        vetting clearance to do a new piece of work.
        What should I do?</title>
      <body>
        <p>Talk to your National Security Vetting Contact (NSVC).
          All business areas that have at least one member of staff who holds
          Security Clearance should have one.
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/nsvc-contact"/></p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="q2-my-national-security-vetting-clearance-is-going-to-expire-soon-what-should-i-do">
      <title>Q2. My national security vetting clearance is going to expire soon,
        what should I do?</title>
      <body>
        <p>Speak to your national security vetting contact (NSVC),
          they will decide if it needs to be renewed and help you start the process off.
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/nsvc-contact"/></p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="q3-my-personal-circumstances-have-changed-who-should-i-advise">
      <title>Q3. My personal circumstances have changed,
        who should I advise?</title>
      <body>
        <p>For all changes in personal circumstances,
          please contact Cluster 2 Personnel Risk Management by emailing
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/vettingaftercareemail"/>.
          Failure to report relevant changes could result in withdrawal of clearance.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
	<topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/contact-details"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
