<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ongoing-personnel-security">
  <title>Ongoing Personnel Security</title>
  <body>
    <p>Security clearance is a snap-shot of an individual at the time they make
      their application.
      Therefore,
      it is essential that employees are proactively managed using effective
      ongoing personnel management processes.</p>
    <p>When staff are inducted,
      they are advised of their security responsibilities.
      Line managers also have a key role in ensuring the security of the department,
      including personnel security of the people they manage.
      This is best achieved by following the guidance in this document.</p>
  </body>
  <topic id="line-manager-responsibilities">
    <title>Line Manager Responsibilities</title>
    <body>
      <ul>
        <li>Brief your staff,
          including contractors,
          on local and departmental security arrangements and policies
          as part of their induction.</li>
        <li>Get to know your staff,
          including contractors who might only be employed for a temporary basis.
          This is so you can recognise any changes in their behaviour
          which might impact on the security of the organisation.</li>
        <li>Do not ignore any concerns you have for fear of not knowing what to do.
          See elsewhere in this guidance for further details.</li>
        <li>Where appropriate,
          deal with any concerns by talking to the individual,
          your manager,
          or HR.</li>
        <li>Create a positive climate in which security is given priority,
          and individuals are encouraged to discuss any concerns before they
          become security problems.</li>
        <li>Be a good role model for all your staff,
          and display good security behaviours.</li>
        <li>Remind all staff with security clearance (CTC,
          SC,
          or DV),
          that they <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
          <xref href="reporting-personal-circumstance-changes.dita" format="dita">report
            changes in personal circumstances</xref>.</li>
        <li>Remind all staff that they <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> notify
          the <xref href="#contact-details" format="dita">security team</xref>
          if they are travelling to certain countries referred to in the
          <xref href="accessing-moj-it-systems-from-overseas.dita" format="dita">Accessing
            <ph platform="github" conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/><ph platform="intranet"
            conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems overseas</xref> guidance.</li>
        <li>Ensure you are aware of any relevant caveats,
          or aftercare measures,
          for staff with security clearance (CTC,
          SC,
          or DV),
          or other security guidance relating to your staff or contractors.
          Where relevant,
          make sure your successor is made aware of these requirements if or when you leave your post.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>While holders of NSV clearance <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
        be aware of their responsibilities,
        as a manager you <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> be aware of these points:
      <ul>
        <li>Holders of CTC,
          SC,
          and DV are expected to maintain the highest levels of personal integrity,
          honesty and discretion.
          They <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshouldnot"/> place themselves
          in positions where they could be open to compromise,
          pressure,
          or improper influence.</li>
        <li>Notwithstanding any set duration,
          security clearances <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policycan"/> be reviewed
          at any point if there is a relevant change of circumstances,
          or new issues come to light.</li>
        <li>Holders <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> be aware of when
          their clearance expires,
          and apply to renew in time.</li>
        <li>Holders <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> adhere to 
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/>
          <xref href="protecting-social-media-accounts.dita" format="dita">on-line social media policy</xref>.
          Holders <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshouldnot"/> publish their security
          clearance on-line,
          including on social networking sites.</li>
      </ul></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="dealing-with-concerns">
    <title>Dealing with concerns</title>
    <body>
      <p>During your time as a line manager,
        you might notice unusual behaviours in some of your staff;
        they might behave out of character.
        It could be that someone else reports their unusual behaviour to you.
        It is your responsibility to engage with that individual promptly,
        and address any concerns that you have,
        or that are brought to your attention.
        Addressing areas of concern early on can prevent potentially damaging behaviour.</p>
      <p>When speaking to an individual,
        remember:
      <ul>
        <li>Your role as a line manager encompasses security,
          which means there is a duty of care not just to the individual
          but also the wider team.</li>
        <li>Vetted individuals <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/>
          be encouraged to approach their line manager to discuss issues of concern.
          Early discussions allow appropriate action to be taken,
          and for support to be provided where appropriate.</li>
        <li>Dips in performance or changes in attitude might be an indication that
          staff have a wider problem or concern.
          Do not make assumptions,
          but do think about mitigations and support to prevent potential security implications.</li>
        <li>Do not put off talking to an individual for fear of not knowing what to do or say.</li>
        <li>Unusual behaviour might be nothing to do with security issues,
          but might be for several reasons.
          Listen to the person,
          and,
          if possible,
          offer your support.
          It might be appropriate to refer them to a <xref
          href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/guidance/hr/support-and-wellbeing/employee-assistance-programme/"
          format="html" scope="external">support group available within</xref>
          the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</li>
      </ul></p>
      <lq>For more information,
        see the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <xref
        href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/guidance/hr/support-and-wellbeing/" format="html"
        scope="external">Support and wellbeing</xref> resources.</lq>
      <p>Managing security clearances requires active conversations between
        managers and individuals throughout the year,
        and prompt reporting of any issues of concern:
        <xref href="reporting-personal-circumstance-changes.dita" format="dita">Reporting
          personal circumstance changes</xref>.
        Whilst there are formal renewal periods,
        clearances may be reviewed,
        suspended,
        or withdrawn at any time.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="managing-contractors-or-consultants">
      <title>Managing contractors or consultants</title>
      <body>
      <p>As with any staff,
        managers are responsible for ensuring that the appointment of contractors
        or consultants meets <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> security requirements,
        and that ongoing personnel security is maintained throughout
        their stay in the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</p>
      <p>Managing a contractor or consultant is normally similar to managing
        a permanent member of staff.
        However,
        given the sometimes transient and flexible nature of a contractor or
        consultant's work pattern,
        managers <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> pay more attention
        to them in terms of recruiting and security responsibilities.</p>
      <p>There is a good chance that a contractor is not familiar with the
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s security procedures and practices,
        or even the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s
        <xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/" format="html" scope="external">Intranet site</xref>.
        They might not be aware of the threats faced by HMG,
        or the specific governmental department for which they work.
        Advise them that Government work <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshallnot"/>
        normally be carried out on <xref href="personal-devices.dita" format="dita">personal
          IT devices</xref>.</p>
        </body>
      </topic>
      <topic id="summary">
        <title>Summary</title>
        <body>
      <ul>
        <li>Prior to their appointment,
          contractors or consultants <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be
          security cleared to the appropriate level for their specific role.</li>
        <li>Only a permanent employee (civil servant) can sponsor a security clearance.</li>
        <li>Only a permanent employee (civil servant) can act as a sponsor for
          the issuing of a building pass.
          Appropriate security clearance <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be
          obtained before sponsoring an application for a building pass.</li>
        <li>"Escorted" visitor passes are exclusively for the use of visitors.
          Contractors or consultants paid by the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
           are not visitors,
           and <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshallnot"/> be issued
           with a visitor pass.
           They <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be cleared
           in advance of them starting work,
           and issued with the correct pass.</li>
        <li>When transferring security clearance from another Government department,
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/cluster2securityunittext"/>
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
          confirm if the security clearance is valid and current.
          If not,
          a new security clearance application <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
          be started.</li>
        <li>Holders of CTC,
          SC,
          or DV <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> <xref
          href="reporting-personal-circumstance-changes.dita" format="dita">report
          changes in personal circumstances</xref>.</li>
        <li>Remind all staff that they <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> <xref
          href="accessing-moj-it-systems-from-overseas.dita" format="dita">refer to the travel abroad guidance</xref>.</li>
        <li>Ensure contractors,
          like all staff,
          are aware of <xref href="cyber-and-technical-security-guidance.dita"
          format="dita" platform="github"><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
          security policies</xref><xref href="https://security-guidance.service.justice.gov.uk/"
          format="html" scope="external" platform="intranet"><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> security policies</xref>,
          and check their understanding.
          Make sure they are briefed on good security behaviours,
          and act as a role model.</li>
        <li>Ensure they are aware of the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
          <xref href="protecting-social-media-accounts.dita" format="dita">on-line
            social media</xref> guidance
          and understand the need to avoid publishing their security clearance on social media.</li>
          <li>Create a positive environment in which security is given priority,
            and individuals are encouraged to discuss concerns before they become serious problems.</li>
        <li>As part of your role,
          you <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> seek to get to know your contractor
          or consultant,
          and discuss any behavioural changes.</li>
        <li>Although contractors often have a short contract,
          that might or might not be renewed,
          they are still given security clearance for a number of years:
          5 years for CTC,
          and 7 years for SC and DV.
          If their contract period is less than the renewal cycle,
          then you <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> notify <xref
          href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/guidance/hr/recruitment/security-vetting/vetting-contact-point-vcp/"
          format="html" scope="external">your local National Security Vetting Contact (NSVC)</xref>
          when the contractor leaves,
          so that their security clearance can be terminated.</li>
      </ul>
    </body>
  </topic>
	<topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/contact-details"><title/></topic>
	<topic id="feedback" platform="html epub" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
