<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="online-identifiers">
  <title>Online identifiers in security logging and monitoring</title>
  <body/>
  <topic id="overview">
    <title>Overview</title>
    <body>
      <p>It can sometimes be counter-intuitive to think of IP addresses, cookies, and log data as personal data.
        However there are good reasons why it is important for the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> during design,
        implementation, and operation of <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> online services.
        Put simply,
        it is easiest for the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> to assume that any information captured and processed through public-facing services
        might contain personal information,
        and to protect this information accordingly.</p>
    </body>
    </topic>
  <topic id="what-are-online-identifiers">
    <title>What are online identifiers?</title>
    <body>
      <p>Online identifiers are anything that could be used to track someone as they interact with <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> online services.
        This can include, for example:
        <ul>
          <li>IP addresses.</li>
          <li>Cookies that the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> or authorised 3rd parties set on devices.</li>
          <li>Information placed into local storage on devices.</li>
          <li>Usernames or other IDs associated with <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> services.</li>
          <li>Third-party authentication tokens.</li>
        </ul></p>
        <p>Online identifiers could also include metadata captured about a device interacting with <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> services
          if this information is sufficiently different to allow devices to be reliably identified.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="why-are-online-identifiers-treated-as-personal-data">
    <title>Why are online identifiers treated as personal data?</title>
    <body>
      <p>If there is any way to tie an online identifier to an individual,
        then that identifier needs to be treated as though it is personal data.</p>
      <p>The way this mapping might be achieved is unimportant.</p>
      <p>It could be because the user later provides personal data to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> as part of using a service,
        and in doing so provides a link between all of the activities that their IP or session cookie has done with their identity.</p>
      <p>There might also be a legal route available to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> to determine the identity behind an identifier.
        For example,
        by making a lawful request to an ISP to uncover the person associated with a dynamic IP address at a particular time.</p>
      <p>For more information on this,
        refer to the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) <xref href="https://ico.org.uk/for-organisations/guide-to-the-general-data-protection-regulation-gdpr/key-definitions/" format="html" scope="external">key definitions</xref>,
        and "<xref href="https://www.privacy-regulation.eu/en/recital-30-GDPR.htm" format="htm" scope="external">Recital 30</xref>"
        from the <xref href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Article_29_Data_Protection_Working_Party" format="html" scope="external">Article 29 Working Group</xref>.
        There is also an informative article <xref href="https://www.fieldfisher.com/en/services/privacy-security-and-information/privacy-security-and-information-law-blog/can-a-dynamic-ip-address-constitute-personal-data" format="html" scope="external">here</xref>.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="what-does-this-mean-for-moj-services">
    <title>What does this mean for <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> services?</title>
    <body>
      <p>It is important to think carefully about:
        <ul>
          <li>What metadata is captured during a user's interaction with <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> services.</li>
          <li>How long information is retained.</li>
          <li>Who has access to the information.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> privacy notices on services must be clear about the information captured as part of a user's interaction.
        This includes "anonymous" interactions,
        such as simple browsing information about the services.
        Metadata like this must be included in the scope of privacy impact assessments for <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> services.</p>
      <note>Theoretically,
        privacy notices are only mandatory for externally-facing services.
        They are not required for internal services.
        However,
        it is undoubtedly good practice - and highly recommended - to apply the same approach,
        for consistency.</note>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#contact-details"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
