<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?path2rootmap-uri ./?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="passwords">
	<title>Passwords</title>
	<body/>
	<topic id="overview">
		<title>Overview</title>
		<body>
			<p>This article provides guidance on passwords within the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/>.
			It helps you protect <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems by telling you about choosing and using passwords.
			Whenever you see the word 'system' here, it applies to:
			<ul>
				<li>Hardware, such as laptops, PCs, servers, mobile devices, and any IT equipment.</li>
				<li>Software, such as the Operating System, or applications installed on hardware, or mobile device applications (apps).</li>
				<li>Services, such as remote databases or cloud-based tools like <xref href="https://slack.com/" scope="external" format="html">Slack</xref>.</li>
			</ul></p>
			<p>This password guidance is for all users. <ph audience="audience-tech">It also includes more detail for system administrators or developers.</ph></p>
		</body>
	</topic>
	<topic id="best-practices-for-everyone">
		<title>Best practices for everyone</title>
		<body>
			<p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> password guidance follows <xref href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/using-passwords-protect-your-data" scope="external" format="html">NCSC guidance</xref>. The NCSC recommends a <xref href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/password-guidance-simplifying-your-approach" scope="external" format="html">simpler</xref> approach to passwords. Some agencies or bodies might have specific requirements or variations. Check your team Intranet or ask your Line Manager for more information.</p>
			<p>Follow the <xref href="https://www.cyberaware.gov.uk/passwords" scope="external" format="html">CyberAware advice</xref> to generate your passwords. Always use a separate and unique password for each account or service.</p>
			<p>The most important points to remember are that passwords should be:
				<ul>
					<li>At least 8 characters long.</li>
					<li>No more than 128 characters long.</li>
					<li>Not obvious.</li>
					<li>Not a dictionary word. A combination of dictionary words might be suitable, such as '<codeph>CorrectHorseBatteryStaple</codeph>'.</li>
					<li>Unique for each account or service.</li>
				</ul></p>
			<p>If a system or another person provides you with a password, change it before doing any <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> work on that system. Examples of 'single-use' passwords include:
				<ul>
					<li>Your own account on a work-provided laptop.</li>
					<li>A shared account for accessing a data analytics service.</li>
					<li>All supplier or vendor supplied accounts.</li>
				</ul>
			</p>
			<p>You must change a password whenever:
				<ul>
					<li>There has been a security incident involving your account or password. For example, someone guessed your password, or you used it on another account.</li>
					<li>There was a security incident with the service that you access using the password. For example, if someone broke into the system that provides the service you use.</li>
					<li>Your line manager or other authorised person tells you to do so.</li>
				</ul>
			</p>
			<p>When required to change a password, you must do so as soon as possible.
			If you don't change the password soon enough, you might be locked out of your account automatically.
			The following table shows the maximum time allowed:
			<table>
				<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="2*"/>
					<colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry colname="col1">Type of system</entry>
							<entry colname="col2">Maximum time to change a password</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry>Single-user systems, such as laptops</entry>
							<entry>1 week</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>All other systems</entry>
							<entry>1 day</entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>
			</p>
		</body>
	</topic>
	<topic id="password-expiry">
		<title>Password expiry</title>
		<body>
			<p>You don't have to change a password because it is old. The reason is that time-expiry of passwords is an <xref href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/blog-post/your-password-expiry-policy-may-have-reached-its-expiry-date" scope="external" format="html">...outdated and ineffective practice</xref>.</p>
			<p>Some current or legacy systems don't allow passwords that follow <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> guidance. For example, some mobile devices, laptop hard drive encryption tools, or older computers might not be able to support a mix of character types. For such systems, choose passwords that are as close as possible to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> guidance.</p>
		</body>
	</topic>
	<topic id="password-managers">
		<title>Password managers</title>
		<body>
			<p>Use a password manager to help you keep track of your passwords.</p>
			<p>These are tools that help you create, use, and manage your passwords. A useful overview is available <xref href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/blog-post/what-does-ncsc-think-password-managers" scope="external" format="html">here</xref>.</p>
			<p>As passwords become more complex, and you need to look after more of them, it becomes increasingly necessary to use a password manager. For example, development teams in <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Digital &amp; Technology use <xref href="using-lastpass.dita" format="dita" type="topic">LastPass</xref>.</p>
			<p>You still need to remember one password.
			This is the password that gets you into the manager application.
			Once you have access, the application works like a simple database, storing all the passwords associated with your various accounts and services.
			Some managers have extra features, such as password generators.
			Some managers can even automatically fill-in username and password fields for you when during log in.</p>
			<p>The password manager database is often stored in the cloud so that you can use it anywhere.
			The database is encrypted, so only you can open it.
			That's why your single password key is so important.
			Without it, you can never get access to the password database again.</p>
			<p>Using a password manager for your <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> account and service details is recommended.</p>
			<p>You can find additional useful information about password manager tools <xref href="password-managers.dita" format="dita" scope="local">here</xref>.</p>
			<p audience="audience-tech">Extra guidance for system administrators or developers is available <xref href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/helping-end-users-manage-their-passwords" scope="external" format="html">here</xref>.</p>
		</body>
	</topic>
	<topic id="system-administrators-or-developers" audience="audience-tech">
		<title>System administrators or developers</title>
		<body>
			<p>Follow the <xref href="https://www.gov.uk/service-manual/design/passwords" scope="external" format="html">Government Service Manual for Passwords</xref> when you administer or develop MOJ systems or services.</p>
			<p>Suppliers and vendors must ensure that systems support the password requirements.
			Systems must be able to issue, change, reset, and revoke passwords.
			This must be possible using well-defined and fully-described processes.
			Supply enough information and procedures to fulfil <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> password policy.</p>
			<p>The <xref href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/password-guidance-simplifying-your-approach" scope="external" format="html">NCSC guidance</xref> for simplifying passwords says that forcing complex passwords has:
				<ul>
					<li>Marginal security benefit.</li>
					<li>A high user burden.</li>
				</ul>
			</p>
			<p>Technical controls are more effective at protecting password-based authentication. Examples include:
				<ul>
					<li><xref href="#password-access-attempts" scope="local" format="dita">Locking accounts</xref> after repeated access attempts.</li>
					<li><xref href="#blocking-bad-passwords" scope="local" format="dita">Blocking</xref> common password choices.</li>
				</ul></p>
			<p conref="password-management-guide.dita#password-management-guide/related-guides-info"/>
		</body>
	</topic>
	<topic id="user-facing-services" audience="audience-tech">
		<title>User facing services</title>
		<body>
			<p>Authenticate people accessing user facing services by using the <xref href="https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/introducing-govuk-verify/introducing-govuk-verify" scope="external" format="html">GOV.UK Verify</xref> service.
			It is not necessary for someone to be a UK Citizen to use the GOV.UK Verify service, but they must have a UK address.</p>
			<p>If it is not possible to use GOV.UK Verify, follow the advice presented here to support citizen passwords.
			Pay extra attention to the following points:
			<ul>
				<li>People should have complex passwords which are different for each service they use.
				Make it easy for people to have complex passwords by supporting password managers.
				For example, services should always let users paste passwords into web forms.</li>
				<li>Don't force <xref href="#password-expiry" scope="local" format="dita">regular password expiry</xref>.
				Make it easy to <xref href="#password-reset" scope="local" format="dita">change passwords</xref> when required.</li>
				<li>Do force password changes when required. For example, after <xref href="#password-access-attempts" scope="local" format="dita">exceeding a count of unsuccessful password entry attempts</xref>.</li>
				<li>Make the process of <xref href="#password-reset" scope="local" format="dita">resetting a password</xref> like providing a password for the first time.
				Include a way to <xref href="#distributing-passwords-to-users" scope="local" format="dita">prevent attackers using the reset process</xref> to conduct an attack.</li>
			</ul></p>
			<p>For more information, see the <xref href="multi-user-accounts-and-public-facing-service-accounts-guide.dita" format="dita" scope="local">Multi-user accounts and Public-Facing Service Accounts Guide</xref>.</p>
		</body>
	</topic>
	<topic id="service-accounts" audience="audience-tech">
		<title>Service Accounts</title>
		<body>
			<p>System and application authentication must always use service accounts. Use certificates for service account authentication. Follow <xref href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/provisioning-and-securing-security-certificates" scope="external" format="html">NCSC guidelines</xref> for issuing and securing the certificates. If you can't use certificates, passwords are an acceptable alternative.</p>
			<p>Service account passwords must:
			<ul>
				<li>Be system generated.</li>
				<li>Be at least 15 characters long.</li>
				<li>Be no more than 128 characters long.</li>
				<li>Be complex, including upper-case and lower-case letters, digits, punctuation, and special characters.</li>
				<li>Be kept secure, by using hashes or encryption.</li>
				<li>Not be stored in the clear in any systems or applications.</li>
				<li>Not be used by standard or administrative users for any purpose.</li>
			</ul></p>
			<p>For more information, see the <xref href="multi-user-accounts-and-public-facing-service-accounts-guide.dita" format="dita" scope="local">Multi-user accounts and Public-Facing Service Accounts Guide</xref>.</p>
		</body>
	</topic>
	<topic id="default-passwords">
		<title>Default passwords</title>
		<body>
			<p>Change all default passwords when a new, modified, or replacement system arrives. Complete the changes before making the system available for any <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> work.</p>
		</body>
	</topic>
	<topic id="multi-factor-authentication" audience="audience-tech">
		<title>Multi-factor Authentication</title>
		<body>
			<p><xref href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multi-factor_authentication" scope="external" format="html">Multi-factor Authentication (MFA)</xref> provides extra security for login and access controls. MFA is also referred to as Two-Factor Authentication or 2FA.</p>
			<p>Use MFA in systems for privileged or important step confirmation. For example, the user must enter their MFA code when deleting a record.</p>
			<p>Follow the <xref href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/multi-factor-authentication-online-services" scope="external" format="html">NCSC guidance</xref> for enabling MFA.</p>
			<p>Use <xref href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time-based_One-time_Password_algorithm" scope="external" format="html">Time-based One-Time Password Algorithm (TOTP)</xref> or hardware and software tokens. If possible, avoid using SMS or email messages containing one-time login codes. If TOTP applications, or hardware- or software-based tokens, are not available to you, then SMS MFA or email MFA is still better than no MFA.</p>
			<p>Systems must offer MFA alternatives to users where they are available. For example, MFA codes sent by SMS are not suitable if mobile devices are not allowed in the room or building.</p>
			<p>For more information, see the <xref href="multi-factor-authentication-mfa-guide.dita" format="dita" scope="local">Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) Guide</xref>.</p>
		</body>
	</topic>
	<topic id="extra-measures" audience="audience-tech">
		<title>Extra measures</title>
		<body>
			<p>Check that a system, service, or information protected by a password is not <xref href="official-official-sensitive.dita" scope="local" format="dita">classified</xref> as <codeph>SECRET</codeph> or <codeph>TOP SECRET</codeph>. Make sure that it doesn't contain delicate material. Examples include contracts, or personal data or information. If it does contain such material, you might need extra access control.</p>
			<p>Check which other systems have access to the system or service. Make sure that the access control suits the material at both ends of the connection.</p>
			<p>Appropriate extra measures might include tokens or other multi-factor authentication devices. Think about using an existing authentication system other than passwords. Avoid creating new authentication systems. Try to reduce what a user must remember. For more information about authentication, see the <xref href="authentication.dita" format="dita" scope="local">Authentication</xref> guide.</p>
			<p>A technical risk assessment helps identifies extra controls for systems. This is mandatory for systems that need formal assurance. Multi-user systems are also subject to a Business Impact Assessment (BIA). For example, an assessment might find that you need extra checks for logging in to an account or service. The checks might depend on various factors such as:
			<ul>
				<li>Time of login.</li>
				<li>Location of login.</li>
				<li>Number of previous connections from the connecting IP address.</li>
				<li>Whether to allow more than one login at a time.</li>
			</ul></p>
			<p>Examples of these extra mechanisms include:
			<ul>
				<li>Biometrics.</li>
				<li>Tokens.</li>
				<li>Certificate-based authentication.</li>
			</ul></p>
		</body>
	</topic>
	<topic id="password-storage" audience="audience-tech">
		<title>Password storage</title>
		<body>
			<p>Never store, display or print passwords <xref href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plaintext" scope="external" format="html">in the clear</xref>. If you must store them, do so by using <xref href="https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Password_Storage_Cheat_Sheet#Use_a_cryptographically_strong_credential-specific_salt" scope="external" format="html">salted</xref> <xref href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hash_function" scope="external" format="html">hashes</xref>.</p>
			<p>Ensure the password storage security matches the <xref href="official-official-sensitive.dita" scope="local" format="dita">classification</xref> of the system or data. For help with the appropriate strength of hashing, contact the <xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/guidance/knowledge-information/protecting-information/information-assurance-roles/" scope="external" format="html">information assurance</xref> team, or the security team: <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/securityemail"/></p>
			<p>Extra information on handling and protecting passwords is in the <xref href="password-storage-and-management-guide.dita" format="dita" scope="local">Password Storage and Management</xref> guide.</p>
		</body>
	</topic>
	<topic id="password-access-attempts">
		<title>Password access attempts</title>
		<body>
			<p>If a password is ever entered incorrectly, a count starts. After at most 10 (ten) consecutive failed attempts at using the correct password, access to the account or system is locked. A successful use of the password resets the count to zero again.</p>
		</body>
	</topic>
	<topic id="password-reset">
		<title>Password reset</title>
		<body>
			<p>If a password lock occurs, a reset is necessary. This requires action by the system administrator or the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Service Desk. The process should be like issuing the password for the first time. Other account details are not changed during the reset. This helps avoid losing any work. Checks ensure that an attacker cannot use the password reset process.</p>
		</body>
	</topic>
	<topic id="blocking-bad-passwords">
		<title>Blocking bad passwords</title>
		<body>
			<p>You should not try and use <xref href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_the_most_common_passwords" scope="external" format="html">obvious passwords</xref>. Attempts to do so will be blocked.</p>
			<p audience="audience-tech">Developers and administrators should configure systems to check for and block obvious passwords embedded within a password. For example, <codeph>MySecretPassword</codeph> is not a good password!
			Use password and hash lists from <xref href="https://github.com/danielmiessler/SecLists/tree/master/Passwords" scope="external" format="html">SecLists</xref> or <xref href="https://haveibeenpwned.com/Passwords" scope="external" format="html">Have I Been Pwned</xref>, to help prevent bad passwords.</p>
		</body>
	</topic>
	<topic id="distributing-passwords-to-users" audience="audience-tech">
		<title>Distributing passwords to users</title>
		<body>
			<p>There are times when a system must send a password to a user.
			An example is when granting access to a service for the first time.
			To send a password to a user, the mechanism used must be secure.
			The protection should match the sensitivity of the information protected by password.</p>
			<p>Passwords created for a user should always be <xref href="#single-use-passwords" scope="local" format="dita">single-use</xref>.
			Use an out-of-band channel to send the password to the user.
			For example, send the password to the user's line manager who will give it to the user.</p>
			<p>For more information, see the <xref href="password-storage-and-management-guide.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Password Storage and Management Guide</xref>.</p>
		</body>
	</topic>
	<topic id="single-use-passwords">
		<title>Single-use passwords</title>
		<body>
			<p>Some passwords are 'one time' or single-use.
			Administrators and developers use these to grant access to a service for the first time.
			After using the password once, the user must immediately change the password.</p>
			<p>Single-use passwords are time limited.
			If they are not used within a specific time after generation, they must become invalid.</p>
			<p>The following table shows the valid lifetime of a single-use password:
			<table>
				<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="2*"/>
					<colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry colname="col1">Type of system</entry>
							<entry colname="col2">Lifetime of a single-use password</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry>Single-user systems, such as laptops</entry>
							<entry>1 week</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>All other systems</entry>
							<entry>1 day</entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table></p>
		</body>
	</topic>
	<topic id="multi-user-systems-and-services" audience="audience-tech">
		<title>Multi-user systems and services</title>
		<body>
			<p>All multi-user systems and services must check for redundant User IDs and accounts.
			If necessary, remove the redundant IDs or accounts.</p>
			<p>The <xref href="access-control-guide.dita" format="dita" type="topic">Access Control Guide</xref> discusses the management and removal of accounts.</p>
			<p>If someone is no longer allowed to access a system, check for and change any shared account or common password they might still have.</p>
			<p>For more information, see the <xref href="multi-user-accounts-and-public-facing-service-accounts-guide.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Multi-user accounts and Public-Facing Service Accounts Guide</xref>.</p>
		</body>
	</topic>
	<topic id="identity-providers-and-single-sign-on" audience="audience-tech">
		<title>Identity Providers and Single Sign-On</title>
		<body>
			<p>When you need an authentication solution, try to use existing <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> services.
			Examples include Identity Provider (IdP) or Single Sign-On (SSO) services, such as Office 365 or Digital and Technology G-Suite.</p>
			<p>This helps reduce the need to design, create, deploy and manage yet another solution.</p>
			<p>SSO integration in existing IdP solutions improves the user experience. This is because you can authenticate to systems using existing <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> credentials.</p>
			<p>For more information, see the <xref href="multi-user-accounts-and-public-facing-service-accounts-guide.dita" scope="local" format="dita">Multi-user accounts and Public-Facing Service Accounts Guide</xref>.</p>
		</body>
	</topic>
	<topic id="account-management" audience="audience-tech">
		<title>Account management</title>
		<body>
			<p>This guidance on passwords is separate from the guidance on account management.
			You should still follow the rules and processes for managing accounts.
			In particular, while you don't need to <xref href="#password-expiry" scope="local" format="dita">change passwords after a period of time</xref>, you should still expire accounts promptly.
			Examples would be when accounts are no longer required, or have fallen out of use.</p>
			<p>For more information, see the <xref href="account-management.dita" format="dita" scope="local">Account management</xref> guide.</p>
		</body>
	</topic>
	<topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/contact-details">
		<title/>
	</topic>
</topic>
