<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="patch-management-guide">
  <title>Patch Management Guide</title>
  <topic id="introduction">
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <body>
      <p>This guide explains the patching requirements for <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/>
        systems once a vulnerability has been identified.</p>
      <p>This guide is a sub-page to the
        <xref href="vulnerability-scanning-and-patch-management-guide.dita" format="dita">Vulnerability Scanning and Patch Management Guide</xref></p>
      <p>The intent is to avoid compromise of <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> systems
        because of vulnerabilities.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="patching-of-moj-systems-and-equipment">
    <title>Patching of <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> systems and equipment</title>
    <body>
      <p>This guidance must be followed for all systems and services developed
        or procured by the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.
        It applies to all asset types including, but not limited to:
      <ul>
        <li>Internet facing websites and digital services.</li>
        <li>End user client devices, such as Desktop PCs, laptops, tablets, and mobile phones.</li>
        <li>Infrastructure devices, such as networking equipment, servers, and printers.</li>
        <li>Applications.</li>
        <li>Internet-of-Things (IoT) devices.</li>
      </ul></p>
      <p>In general,
        there are three options for patching:
        <ol>
          <li>The problem is serious or urgent, and must be mitigated as soon as possible.</li>
          <li>The problem is important but not urgent; mitigation can wait until the next scheduled patching cycle.</li>
          <li>The problem does not require mitigation in advance of changes introduced as part of normal system upgrades.</li>
        </ol>
        <note>The nature of the patching cycle will depend on what is agreed during development,
          deployment,
          and subsequent maintenance of the system or service.</note></p>
      <p>Patching is the application of a vendor-supplied security patch.
        It can also refer to other ways of achieving the same goal.
        Examples include:
        <ul>
          <li>Virtual patches.</li>
          <li>Removal of vulnerable services or functionality.</li>
          <li>Disabling and preventing access.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>Patching might include recompiling applications to incorporate security updates.
        The updates might be in third party libraries or other code.</p>
      <p>Always apply patches as soon as possible.
        Where this guidance mentions a time limit,
        you should apply patches no later than the time given.
        Some important or sensitive systems might need more urgent patching.
        For example, a system might need you to apply 'critical' or 'high risk' patches within 7 days.</p>
      <p>Where patching or other mitigation is required,
        it must be applied in compliance with the <xref href="#patching-schedule" format="dita">Patching Schedule</xref> in this guide.</p>
      <p>Operating systems and applications installed on systems must be:
        <ul>
          <li>Licensed and supported.</li>
          <li>Removed from devices when no longer licensed or supported.</li>
          <li>Patched as soon as possible.</li>
          <li>Patched within no more than 14 days of an update being released,
            where the fix is for a 'critical' or 'high risk' vulnerability.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>To ensure that patches are implemented on systems, you must either:
        <ul>
          <li>Enable and use any vendor-provided automatic patch deployment mechanisms for the system.</li>
          <li>If automatic patch deployment is not available,
            apply patches manually according to the schedule outlined in this guide.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>If a system or service,
        or a component it depends on,
        can no longer be licensed or supported,
        it should be reviewed within the timescale of the vulnerability scanning lifecycle,
        to determine what action to take.
        If the required license or support cannot be obtained,
        the system or service should be replaced by an alternative,
        or removed.
        If the system or service cannot be removed,
        then the issue should be raised through the patching exemptions process
        outlined in the <xref href="#patching-exemptions" format="dita">Patching Exemptions section</xref> in this guide.</p>
      <p>In summary:
        <ul>
          <li>It must be possible to patch or mitigate an <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> system or service.
          A clear, documented process must exist explaining how to patch or mitigate.</li>
          <li>Wherever possible, patching should be automated,
            or at least have minimum possible dependency on manual intervention.</li>
          <li>If a patch is not available, or cannot be deployed, then a suitable risk mitigation might be acceptable.</li>
          <li>Patching or mitigating a system or service might impact or be affected by other systemic components.
            These must be identified and addressed as part of the patch or mitigation process.</li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="moj-digital-services">
    <title><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Digital services</title>
    <body>
      <p>For systems or services developed by the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>,
        it must be possible to patch or mitigate in order to address any vulnerabilities.
        To ensure this is possible:
      <ul>
        <li>The Beta development stage must include a mechanism or process for
          a new or updated service to track and apply patches.<!--
          Refer to the Software Development Lifecycle Guide for further details.--></li>
        <li>Sufficient logs must be available from the new or updated service,
          so that security problems can be tracked from identification through to rectification.</li>
        <li>The patching process must also describe how to triage and action any problems.<!--
          Please refer to the Software Development Lifecycle Guide for further details.--></li>
      </ul></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="patching-schedule">
    <title>Patching Schedule</title>
    <body>
      <p>The following Patching Schedule defines the indicative severity
        ratings and consequent timescales.
        All vulnerabilities must be remediated or patched in line with this schedule.
        By agreement and formal approval,
        alternative timescales for system patching,
        on a case-by-case basis,
        can be operated.
        <note>The default is for patches to be applied as soon as possible.
          You should not normally delay patching because of concerns about
          possible issues with the patches themselves.</note></p>
        <p>Patches and updates for security related devices must be treated as
          High Risk (3) at least, and implemented in accordance with this rating.</p>
        <p>For ratings of High Risk (3) or Critical (4),
          the <xref href="#contact-details" format="dita">Risk Advisor Team</xref> must evaluate the probability and impact,
          and use this to guide a 'tolerance' period,
          at the end of which a patch must be applied.</p>
        <p>Where the rating is Medium (2) or lower,
          the patch can be deferred to the next scheduled maintenance
          or patching activity.</p>
        <p>This schedule outline is considered a baseline.
          Some systems might require different patching schedules.
          These different schedules must be identified in the system's
          Information Risk Assessment Report (IRAR).</p>
        <p conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/irardefinition"/>
        <table>
          <title>Patching Schedule</title>
          <tgroup cols="4">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2"/>
            <colspec colname="col3" colnum="3"/>
            <colspec colname="col4" colnum="4"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Rating (Severity)</entry>
                <entry>Infrastructure Devices; Server Applications;
                  Digital Services</entry>
                <entry>End User Client Devices</entry>
                <entry>Web Check Reporting</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>Critical (4)</entry>
                <entry>3-7 days after vulnerability alert released.</entry>
                <entry>14 days after vulnerability alert released.</entry>
                <entry><b>Urgent:</b> Serious configuration problems that you should
                  fix without delay and no later than 28 days
                  after the vulnerability alert is released.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>High Risk (3)</entry>
                <entry>3-7 days after vulnerability alert released.</entry>
                <entry>14 days after vulnerability alert released.</entry>
                <entry><b>Advisory:</b> Configuration problems that leave the site
                  vulnerable.
                  Patches should be implemented no later than 28 days after the
                  vulnerability alert is released.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Medium (2)</entry>
                <entry>28 days after vulnerability alert released.</entry>
                <entry>28 days after vulnerability alert released.</entry>
                <entry><b>Informational:</b> Configurations that you could optimise,
                  or information that you may find useful.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Low (1)</entry>
                <entry>Next scheduled system upgrade (not to exceed 90 days).</entry>
                <entry>Next scheduled system upgrade (not to exceed 90 days).</entry>
                <entry><b>N/A</b></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Positive (0)</entry>
                <entry>N/A</entry>
                <entry>N/A</entry>
                <entry><b>Positive:</b> Site configurations that conform to best
                  practices.</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="patch-management-processes">
    <title>Patch management processes</title>
    <body>
      <p>There are two patching and change management approaches in the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</p>
    </body>
    <topic id="msp">
      <title>Infrastructure and services provided by a Managed Service Provider (MSP)</title>
      <body>
        <p>Where services and infrastructure are provided by MSPs,
          the vendor is normally responsible for developing and implementing patches
          to identified vulnerabilities.
          Patches or a workaround must be provided by vendors to ensure the
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> is able to meet the schedule
          for implementing patches.</p>
        <p>If this is not possible,
          vendors must provide a firm statement that the patch or workaround cannot
          be made available within the timescale mandated for addressing the vulnerability.
          The vulnerability alert must then be escalated to the Risk Advisor
          team (contacted through email: <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/catemail"/>) for help with acceptance,
          transfer, mitigation or avoidance.</p>
        <p>Any patches to be deployed must go through the normal change management and approval process,
          and the changes recorded in the Service Management Tool.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="in-house">
      <title>Services and applications developed
        by <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> in-house project teams</title>
      <body>
        <p>Where services and applications are developed by
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> in-house project teams,
          patching and change management is addressed on a project-by-project basis.
          Changes are identified through awareness channels and scanning activities.
          These identify operational and security issues.
          A change management ticket must be created,
          detailing the change required.
          The project manager follows the change management process to determine
          how and when to implement the change,
          based on the security risk rating.</p>
        <p>The patch review and approval is normally managed within the project team.
          If assistance is required,
          contact the <xref href="#contact-details" format="dita">Cyber Assistance Team</xref>.</p>
        <p>If changes are urgent because a major security risk has been identified,
          the product, system, or service owner should ask a competent developer to investigate,
          and if possible create and implement a patch quickly.
          If the issue is more complex, Technical Architects, Security Architects
          and the <xref href="#contact-details" format="dita">Cyber Assistance Team</xref>
          might need to assist in the development of
          appropriate remediation plans.</p>
        <p>Patches must be implemented according to the schedule in this guide.
          If this is not possible,
          the project team must provide an indication that the patch or workaround
          cannot be implemented within the timescale mandated for addressing
          the vulnerability.
          This delay must be escalated to the Risk Advisor team
          (contact through email: <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/catemail"/>) for help with acceptance,
          transfer, mitigation or avoidance.</p>
        </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="removal-of-equipment">
    <title>Removal of equipment</title>
    <body>
      <p>If a system or service vulnerability cannot be patched or mitigated,
        it might be necessary to remove that system or service.</p>
      <p>Before the removal of any system or service,
        a fresh Business Impact Assessment must be conducted
        and the business process owner consulted.
        The removal of a system or service is likely to come under the emergency
        and major change process.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="patching-exemptions">
    <title>Patching exemptions</title>
    <body>
      <p>In exceptional cases where patching of systems is not possible,
        other mitigations (such as logical separation) must be identified
        and evaluated for efficacy prior to enablement.
        The circumstances must be discussed with the affected
        Information Asset Owners (IAO) and System Owners.
        If the IAOs agree with the deviation,
        System Owners must request formal approval by the
        Senior Information Risk Owner (SIRO) for the exemption.
        Approval must be sought and obtained within a comparable timescale
        to applying a patch.
        If a critical patch cannot be applied,
        the approval to be exempt must be obtained within
        the same number of days allowed for applying a critical patch.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="contact-details" conref="vulnerability-scanning-guide.dita#contact-details"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>

  <!--
  <topic id="internet-facing-websites">
    <title>Internet facing websites</title>
    <body>
      <p>If you are developing or running any websites or services that are
        publically accessible through the open internet,
        you must patch any vulnerabilities and common configuration errors identified,
        either through the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s
        <xref href="web-check.dita" format="dita">Web Check</xref> account
        (refer to the <xref href="vulnerability-scanning-guide.dita" format="dita">Vulnerability
          Scanning Guide</xref> for details) or by any other means.
        You need to ensure that any vulnerabilities identified are remediated according to
        <xref href="#patching-schedule-service-level-agreement" format="dita">Service Level Agreements</xref> (SLAs) in this guide.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="end-user-clients">
    <title>End user clients</title>
    <body>
      <p>If you run an end user client,
        you must ensure that the operating system and any applications installed on the end
        user client are licensed and supported.
        To ensure that patches are implemented, you must either:
      <ul>
        <li>Enable and use any vendor provided automatic patch deployment mechanisms for the device.</li>
        <li>If automatic patch deployment is not available,
          apply patches manually according to the SLAs outlined in this guide.</li>
      </ul></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="infrastructure-devices">
    <title>Infrastructure devices</title>
    <body>
      <p>All infrastructure devices must be licensed and supported.
        Any infrastructure devices that are no longer licensed
        or whose vendors do not provide ongoing support,
        should be reviewed in line with the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
        patch management processes outlined in this guidance,
        and where possible removed.
        If devices cannot be removed,
        then the issue should be raised through the patching exemptions process
        outlined in the <xref href="#patching-exemptions" format="dita">Patching
          Exemptions section</xref> in this guide.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="applications">
    <title>Applications</title>
    <body>
      <p>If you develop or run applications hosted on
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> servers,
        external servers or cloud platforms,
        you must ensure they are scanned and patched according to the schedule in this guide.
        Applications include both traditional applications (tools) and services.</p>
        <p>Applications that are no longer licensed or whose vendors do not provide
          ongoing support should be reviewed and possibly removed.
          Please refer to the following <xref href="#patching-exemptions" format="dita">Patching
            Exemptions section</xref> for further information.</p>
        <p>Applications should be access-controlled to help prevent exploitation of
          any vulnerabilities.
          The level of access control must be matched to the level of risk to the
          service provided.
          For example,
          a finance server might have stronger access control than an email server.
          Refer to the <xref href="access-control-guide.dita" format="dita">Access
            Control Guide</xref> for further information.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  -->
