<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="personal-devices">
  <title>Personal devices</title>
  <body>
    <p>This guidance applies to all staff and contractors who work for the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/>.
      It provides advice about using personal devices for work purposes.</p>
  </body>
  <topic id="overview">
    <title>Overview</title>
    <body>
      <p>A personal device is any desktop, laptop, tablet, phone, external drive, or similar device that the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> does not own.</p>
      <note>'Personal devices' include all personally-owned devices with processing ability or Internet connectivity. This includes all types of assistance, organisational or Internet of Things (IoT) devices. Connected vehicles are a special case <xref href="#connected-vehicles" format="dita">discussed in this guidance</xref>. In case of any doubt, <xref href="#contact-details" format="dita">ask for help</xref> about specific examples.</note>
      <p>Not everyone has access to an <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> device for remote use. If you need equipment, you can request it. It can be provided quickly. Contact your Line Manager for details. A request can then be raised through the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/servicedesk"/>.</p>
      <p>In unusual circumstances, it might not be possible to organise provision of equipment. In such cases, you <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policycan"/> request access to an <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <xref href="#virtual-environment" format="dita">virtual environment</xref>.</p>
      <p>Except when connecting to an  <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <xref href="#virtual-environment" format="dita">virtual environment</xref>, or with documented approval in exceptional circumstances as described <xref href="#guidance" format="dita">in this guidance</xref>, you <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshallnot"/> use a personal device for work purposes.</p>
      <p>Avoid connecting peripherals to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> devices, unless those peripherals are supplied or approved by the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>. Examples of peripheral devices include USB, wireless, or <xref href="bluetooth.dita" format="dita" audience="audience-basic audience-suppliers audience-tech">Bluetooth</xref><ph audience="audience-gs">Bluetooth</ph> keyboards or mice.</p>
      <note>Exemptions are possible for connecting peripherals where <ph audience="audience-basic audience-suppliers audience-tech"><xref href="bluetooth.dita#accessibility/accessibility" format="dita" platform="html">accessibility support</xref><xref href="bluetooth.dita#accessibility" format="dita" platform="epub pdf">accessibility support</xref></ph><ph audience="audience-gs">accessibility support</ph> is required. Contact your Line Manager for documented approval before connecting a peripheral device.</note>
      <p>Personal devices <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshallnot"/> be charged from the USB ports of an <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> device.</p>
      <note>Specifically: a personal mobile phone <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshallnot"/> be charged from the USB ports of an <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> device.</note>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="guidance">
    <title>Guidance</title>
    <body>
      <ul>
        <li>If you have an <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>-issued device or virtual environment,
          you <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> use that.</li>
        <li>You <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshallnot"/> use a personal device to access <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/gsuite"/> tools such as
          Gmail, Docs, Slides, Sheets, Drive, Meet, or Hangouts for work purposes.</li>
        <li>You <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshallnot"/> use a personal device to access Office 365 tools such as Outlook email or calendar,
          Word, Excel, or Powerpoint for work purposes.
        <ul>
          <li>Wherever possible, an <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> work device <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> be used to join business Teams calls, either via video or dial in.</li>
          <li>In cases where staff have not been provided with a work phone or laptop or any other work device which allows them to join or dial into Teams, staff <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymay"/> join from their personal devices as a Guest. The chair of the meeting <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> confirm the identity of each and every person joining their call as a Guest.</li>
        </ul></li>
        <li>This guidance applies to all tools accessed through a web browser or installed client applications.</li>
        <li>You <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshallnot"/> send <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> information to your personal email account.</li>
        <li>You <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshallnot"/> use personal accounts for work purposes.</li>
        <li>You <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshallnot"/> store work files or information on a personal device such as a desktop, laptop, tablet or phone.</li>
        <li>You <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshallnot"/> store work files or information on a personal storage device or memory stick,
          such as an external drive, thumb drive, or USB stick.</li>
        <li>Some teams within the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymight"/> have permission to use personal devices for some tasks.
            This permission continues,
            but is being reviewed on an on-going basis.
            Ensure that you have documented approval recording your permission.
            Ensure that the permission is no more than 12 months old.
            To request or refresh permission,
            ask your Line Manager to seek approval by checking with
          the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ostemailtext"/>.</li>
      </ul>
      <note>You are not asked or required to use your own devices for work purposes.
        If you have access to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> devices for work purposes,
        you <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> use them by default.</note>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="virtual-environment">
    <title>Virtual environment</title>
    <body>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> provides access to a Virtual Environment
        to help with exceptional circumstances.
        This is where suitable provision of a physical device is not possible.</p>
      <p>Request a virtual environment through the <codeph>Creation of WVD instances</codeph>
      product offering within the Service Catalogue in <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Service Now.</p>
      <note>A virtual environment does not offer the same capabilities or performance
        as a physical <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>-issued device.
      Using an <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>-issued device is always preferable.</note>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="connected-vehicles">
    <title>Connected vehicles</title>
    <body>
      <p>Connected vehicles are effectively Bluetooth-connected storage devices. They are considered personal devices for the purposes of this guidance, regardless of whether they are owned, leased or rented.</p>
      <p>Automatic transfer of contact information and calendar events might be initiated during the pairing process. The resulting transferred data is accessible to any third party who subsequently pairs their mobile device to the vehicle.</p>
      <p>Additionally, although such platforms usually offer an option to delete paired profiles, there is currently no confirmation that the data is actually erased to a satifactory level. The usual claim is only that the transferred data is deemed inaccessible to the platform menu.</p>
      <p>For these reasons, <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> devices <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshallnot"/> be paired with Bluetooth-enabled vehicles.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#contact-details"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
