<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="personal-mail-and-parcel-delivery-policy-and-procedure">
  <title>Personal mail and parcel delivery policy and procedure</title>
  <body>
    <p>This personal mail and parcel delivery policy applies to all
      <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> employees,
      contractors,
      partners and service providers,
      including those on co-located sites and sites owned by other public bodies.
      This also includes employees of other organisations who are based in,
      or work at,
      <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> occupied premises.</p>
    <p>Agencies and Arms Length Bodies (ALBs) are expected to comply with
      this corporate framework but <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymay"/>
      establish their own arrangements tailored to operational needs
      and <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> supplement it with local
      policy or guidance for any business-specific risk.</p>
  </body>
  <topic id="objective">
    <title>Objective</title>
    <body>
      <p>Following a review by Government Security Centre People and Physical (GSCPP),
        it is recommended that the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
        implements a policy on personal and business deliveries,
        including prohibiting personal parcel deliveries,
        to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> buildings.
        This policy prohibits deliveries of personal items to
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> buildings,
        to comply with HMG minimum physical standard No.10 on mail
        or delivery management.
        For further information regarding this standard,
        contact <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/groupsecurityemail"/>.</p>
      <p>This provides <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
        employees,
        contractors,
        partners and other interested parties with a clear policy
        on mail deliveries,
        to prevent attack,
        damage,
        or interference (malicious or otherwise) to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
        assets,
        and - most importantly - physical harm to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
        people and the public.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="scope-and-definition">
    <title>Scope and Definition</title>
    <body>
      <p>For the purpose of this policy,
        personal deliveries are goods purchased over the internet
        from online retailers or mail subscriptions that are delivered
        to an office without a legitimate business need.
        This policy permits vital work-related courier deliveries to reception,
        as outlined in the policy statement in this document.
        Vital work-related deliveries are those required to support a business's
        function,
        or to support a business need.
        Ordering gifts to be delivered for colleagues who are leaving the organisation,
        or for a special occasion,
        are not considered to be a business-related activity.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="context">
    <title>Context</title>
    <body>
      <p>The growth in online shopping has seen an increase in the number of
        personal parcels delivered to the office,
        as a convenient location because of onsite staff on hand
        to receive deliveries that would otherwise be returned to depot.
        However,
        receiving personal parcels in reception diverts staff from
        their core duties,
        and presents a significant vulnerability to the building's security:
        the parcel contents are unknown by reception staff.
        Reception areas are generally within the main fabric of a building
        and with no separate ventilation or enhanced blast resistant walls,
        any hazardous substance or explosive device would have a serious
        impact throughout the building.
        The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> employs off-site
        mail screening to mitigate against the chances of hostile mail
        being accepted into <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> premises.</p>
      <p>Couriers often require a receiver to sign a Proof of Delivery document,
        stating that the parcel arrived in good condition,
        which risks the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
        being liable for accepting the package if contents turn out
        later to be damaged.</p>
      <p>Online retailers recognise the needs of their customers of
        convenience by offering either <q>Click and Collect</q> options,
        or offering parcel collection facilities in convenient locations.
        This alternative to office-based deliveries is both convenient and
        reduces the need for staff to carry parcels on their commute home.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="responsibilities">
    <title>Responsibilities</title>
    <body>
      <p>All employees,
        contractors,
        partners,
        service providers,
        and employees of other organisations who are on
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> premises and co-located sites
        remain accountable for the security,
        health,
        and safety of themselves,
        colleagues,
        and the protection of <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> assets.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="policy-statements">
    <title>Policy Statements</title>
    <body>
      <p>Items required for a legitimate business need
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policycan"/> be delivered to
        the office,
        provided reception have been notified by email from a verifiable email account
        (for example a Civil Service or Government contractor) 48 hours
        before the parcel is to be delivered,
        or as soon as practicable in the case of next-day or same-day deliveries.
        The email notification <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/>
        provide all of the following information:
      <ul>
        <li>Estimated date of delivery.</li>
        <li>Name of Courier.</li>
        <li>Contact details of the recipient(s),
            who can sign for the parcel and collect it from reception.</li>
      </ul></p>
      <p><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> reception produces
        a list of scheduled deliveries.
        Before accepting parcels from the courier,
        reception confirms who the parcel is for,
        and that it is a pre-approved delivery.
        Failure to follow this procedure <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymay"/>
        result in the need to have the parcel scanned,
        or it being treated as suspicious and the suspicious package
        process being adopted;
        disciplinary action <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymay"/> be taken.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="compliance">
    <title>Compliance</title>
    <body>
      <p>The level of risk and potential impact to
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> information,
        assets,
        and people determines the controls to be applied,
        and the degree of assurance required.
        The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/>
        ensure a baseline of physical security measures are in place at
        each site,
        and receive annual assurance that such measures are in place
        to provide appropriate protection to all occupants and assets,
        and that these measures <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policycan"/>
        be strengthened when required,
        for example in response to a security incident or a change
        in the <xref href="https://www.mi5.gov.uk/threat-levels" format="html"
        scope="external">Government Response Level</xref>.</p>
      <p>The implementation of all security measures must be able to provide
        evidence that the selection has been made in accordance with the
        appropriate information security standards ISO27001/27002,
        physical security advice taken from the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/cpnilong"/>,
        and <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/gov007"/>.</p>
      <p>The constantly changing security landscape has necessarily dictated
        that physical security measures be constantly re-evaluated and
        tested in order to meet new threats and other emerging vulnerabilities.
        This policy and subsequent supporting standards are subject to annual review,
        or more frequently if warranted.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="physical-security-advice" conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/physical-security-advice"><title/></topic>
	<topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/contact-details"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html epub" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
