<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="personal-mail-and-parcel-delivery-policy">
  <title>Personal Mail and Parcel Delivery Policy</title>
  <topic id="audience">
    <title>Audience</title>
    <body>
      <p>This policy complements the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/>’s
        overall <xref href="it-security-policy-overview.dita" format="dita">security policy</xref>.</p>
      <p>This Personal Mail and Parcel Delivery Policy applies to all employees,
        contractors,
        partners,
        and service providers,
        including those on co-located sites and sites owned by other public bodies.
        This will also include employees of other organisations who are based in,
        or work at,
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> occupied premises.</p>
      <p>Agencies and Arms Length Bodies (ALBs) are expected to comply with this corporate framework,
        but may establish their own arrangements tailored to operational needs,
        and should supplement it with local policy or guidance for any business-specific risk.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="objectives">
    <title>Objectives</title>
    <body>
      <p>Following a review by Government Security Advice Centre (GASC),
        the recommendation was that the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> implements a policy on personal and business deliveries,
        including a ban on personal parcel deliveries,
        to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> buildings.
        This policy introduces a ban on personal parcel deliveries,
        to comply with HMG minimum physical standard No. 10 on mail and deliveries management.</p>
      <p>This policy provides our employees,
        contractors,
        partners and other interested parties with a clear policy on mail deliveries,
        to prevent attack,
        damage,
        and interference (malicious or otherwise) to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> assets,
        and most importantly physical harm to our people and the public.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="scope-and-definition">
    <title>Scope and definition</title>
    <body>
      <p>For the purpose of this policy,
        personal deliveries are goods purchased over the internet from online retailers,
        or mail subscriptions that deliver to an office,
        but without a legitimate business need.
        This policy still permits vital work-related courier deliveries to reception,
        as outlined in the policy statements <xref href="#policy-statements" format="dita">below</xref>.
        Vital work-related deliveries are those required to support a business’s function,
        or to support a business need.
        Ordering gifts to be delivered for colleagues who are leaving the organisation,
        or for a special occasion,
        are not considered valid business-related activities.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="context">
    <title>Context</title>
    <body>
      <p>The growth in online shopping has seen an increase in the number of personal parcels delivered to work locations,
        as a convenient location because of on-site staff on hand to receive deliveries that would otherwise be returned to a depot.
        However,
        receiving personal parcels in reception diverts staff from their core duties,
        and presents a significant vulnerability to the building’s security
        because the parcel’s contents are unknown by reception staff.
        Reception areas are generally within the main fabric of a building.
        They are unlikely to have separate ventilation or enhanced blast resistant walls.
        This means any hazardous substance or explosive device would have a serious impact throughout the building.
        The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> employs an off-site mail screening company for all mail delivered to 102 Petty France and Clive House,
        to mitigate against the chances of hostile mail being accepted into the building.</p>
      <p>Couriers often require a receiver to sign a Proof of Delivery document,
        stating that the parcel arrived in good condtion.
        This risks the department being liable for accepting a package if the contents turn out later to be damaged.</p>
      <p>Online retailers recognise the needs of their customers of convenience by offering either <q>click and collect</q> options,
        or offering parcel collection facilities in convenient locations.
        This alternative to office-based deliveries is both convenient and reduces the need for staff to carry parcels on their commute home.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="responsibilities">
    <title>Responsibilities</title>
    <body>
      <p>All employees,
        contractors,
        partners,
        service providers and employees of other organisations who are on <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> premises or co-located sites
        remain accountable for the security,
        health and safety of themselves,
        colleagues,
        and the protection of Departmental Assets.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="policy-statements">
    <title>Policy statements</title>
    <body>
      <p>Items required for a legitimate business need can be delivered to an <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> office,
        <i>provided</i> reception have been notified <i>by email</i> at least 48 hours <i>before</i> the parcel is to be delivered.
        The email request <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> provide the following information:
        <ul>
          <li>Estimated date of delivery.</li>
          <li>Name of Courier.</li>
          <li>Contact details of the recipient(s),
            who can sign and collect the parcel from reception.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> reception will produce a list of scheduled deliveries.
        Before accepting parcels from the courier,
        reception will confirm who the parcel is for,
        and that it was a pre-approved delivery.
        Failure to follow this procedure might result in the need to have the parcel scanned,
        or it being treated as suspicious and the <q>suspicious package process</q> being adopted.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="compliance">
    <title>Compliance</title>
    <body>
      <p>The level of risk and potential impact to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> information,
        assets,
        and people will determine the controls to be applied,
        and the degree of assurance required.
        The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> ensure that a baseline of physical security measures
        are in place at each site,
        and receive annual assurance that such measures are in place to provide appropriate protection to all occupants and assets,
        and that these measures can be strengthened when required,
        for example in response to a security incident or change in the Government Response Level.</p>
      <p>The implementation of all security measures <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be able to provide evidence
        that the selection of measures was been made in accordance with the appropriate information security standards ISO27001/27002,
        Physical Security advice taken from the Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure (CPNI),
        and <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/gov007"/>.</p>
      <p>The constantly changing security landscape has necessarily dictated that
        Physical Security measures be constantly re-evaluated and tested in order to meet new threats and other emerging vulnerabilities.
        This policy and subsequent supporting standards will be subject to annual review,
        or more frequently if warranted.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="physical-security-advice">
    <title>Physical security advice</title>
    <body>
      <p>Physical security advice can be obtained by contacting <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Group Security: <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/groupsecurityemail"/> .</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html epub" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
