<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="physical-security-policy">
  <title>Physical Security Policy</title>
  <topic id="audience">
    <title>Audience</title>
    <body>
      <p>This policy compliments the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> overall security policy.</p>
      <p>Physical security is the practice of protecting elements of government infrastructure,
          estates and personnel against attacks or compromises in the physical
          (tangible, real-world) environment.</p>
      <p>This Physical Security Policy applies to all employees,
          contractors,
          partners and service providers,
          including those on co-located sites and sites owned by other public bodies.
          This also includes employees of other organisations who are based in, or work at, <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>-occupied premises.</p>
      <p>Executive Agencies and Arm's Length Bodies (ALBs) are expected to comply with this corporate framework,
          but might establish their own arrangements tailored to operational needs,
          and should therefore supplement this policy with local policy or guidance for any business-specific risk.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="objective">
    <title>Objective</title>
    <body>
      <p>This content provides employees, contractors, partners and other interested parties with a clear policy direction.
        It requires them to ensure that all necessary physical protective security measures are in place to prevent attack,
        unauthorised access,
        damage,
        or interference (malicious or otherwise) to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> assets,
        and most importantly to prevent physical harm to our people and the public.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="scope-and-definition">
    <title>Scope and Definition</title>
    <body>
      <p>Physical Security refers to measures that are designed to protect physical locations and the assets,
        information,
        and personnel contained within.</p>
      <p>This policy sets out the approach to be adopted to manage,
        develop,
        improve and assure Physical Security across the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</p>
      <p>It is essential that <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> business is conducted in an environment where potential threats -
        including those from both natural and human-made hazards,
        terrorism,
        crime,
        and insider threats -
        to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> assets,
        information,
        and personnel have been identified,
        risk assessed and appropriately mitigated to prevent interference,
        loss,
        or compromise (malicious or otherwise).
        This includes ensuring physical perimeters are protected,
        and entry controls are in place to provide proportionate protection against natural disasters and terrorist attacks.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="context">
    <title>Context</title>
    <body>
      <p>This policy sets out a framework to follow a <q>layered</q> approach to physical security.
        It provides suitably secure environments from which the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> can operate,
        to achieve its strategic aims and objectives by implementing security measures in layers,
        to appropriately protect personnel and assets,
        including material of differing levels of sensitivity.</p>
      <p>This policy provides a high-level organisational objective for the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> with regards to Physical Security,
        supported by <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymandatory"/> Physical Security Standards which <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be followed to ensure compliance,
        as they represent the minimum measures required to protect the security of assets,
        information and people.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="responsibilities">
    <title>Responsibilities</title>
    <body>
      <p>All employees,
        contractors,
        partners,
        service providers and employees of other organisations who are on <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> premises and co-located sites remain accountable for the security,
        health and safety of themselves,
        colleagues and the protection of Departmental Assets.</p>
      <p>The most senior grade based at each site,
        or in <q>Moderate Risk</q> and larger sites the Senior Responsible Officer (SRO),
        has responsibility for ensuring physical security risk assessments are conducted annually.
        They <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> ensure the action plans created to address identified risks and instigate business continuity activities are up-to-date,
        clearly communicated,
        regularly rehearsed,
        implemented effectively,
        and readily available,
        in accordance with their significance,
        importance,
        or classification.</p>
      <p>Managing the physical security controls of sites occupied by <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> employees is the responsibility of a contracted provider.
        The physical security controls include,
        for example:
        <ul>
          <li>Perimeter control.</li>
          <li>Guarding.</li>
          <li>Site access.</li>
        </ul>
        The controls are measured in the form of Physical Security Reviews,
        as undertaken by the Group Security and Governance Team.</p>
      <p>It is the responsibility of those procuring supplier contracts for such physical security measures to ensure that the most up-to-date technical and industry standards are met,
        and that the technology and processes in place are regularly reviewed to ensure that the security controls remain effective and fit for purpose.
        This includes technical and industry standards for Closed Circuit Television,
        Access Controls,
        Intruder Detection Systems,
        and any other relevant alarm systems which are managed by a contracted supplier.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="policy-statements">
    <title>Policy statements</title>
    <body>
      <p>Physical Security controls <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be implemented that are proportionate to the risk appetite of the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>,
        and in adherence with the Information Security Policy and Acceptable Use Policy and other appropriate personnel and information security standards,
        including successful completion of the <xref href="https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/714002/HMG_Baseline_Personnel_Security_Standard_-_May_2018.pdf" scope="external" format="pdf">Baseline Personnel Security Standard</xref>.</p>
      <p>All employees must ensure they remain observant,
        report any suspicious behaviour,
        and highlight non-compliance.
        This vigilance will help deter,
        delay,
        prevent,
        or detect unauthorised access to,
        or attack on,
        a location,
        and mitigate the impact should they occur.</p>
      <p>Each <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> occupied premises presents unique physical security challenges.
        The measures introduced to protect each site <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> take into account the risk categorisation and the physical composition of that site.
        Effective approaches to Physical Security <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> follow the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymandatory"/> Physical Security Standards.</p>
      <p>The most senior grade manager,
        or SRO in <q>Moderate Risk</q> and larger locations,
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> ensure that their site adheres to the Response Level Security Measures Policy,
        and ensure physical security risk assessment activity is conducted annually,
        and that the action plans created to address identified risks are implemented.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="compliance">
    <title>Compliance</title>
    <body>
      <p>The level of risk and potential impact to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> information,
        assets and people determines the controls to be applied,
        and the degree of assurance required.
        The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> ensure a baseline of physical security measures are in place at each site,
        and receive annual assurance that such measures are in place to provide appropriate protection to all occupants and assets,
        and that these measures can be strengthened when required,
        for example in response to a security incident or change in the Government Response Level.</p>
      <p>The implementation of all security measures <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be able to provide evidence that the selection was been made
        in accordance with the appropriate information security standards ISO27001/27002,
        Physical Security advice taken from the Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure,
        and <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/gov007"/>.</p>
      <p>The constantly changing security landscape has necessarily dictated that Physical Security measures be constantly re-evaluated and tested
        in order to meet new threats and other emerging vulnerabilities.
        This policy and subsequent supporting standards are subject to annual review,
        or more frequently,
        as warranted.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="physical-security-advice">
    <title>Physical security advice</title>
    <body>
      <p>Physical security advice can be obtained by contacting <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Group Security: <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/groupsecurityemail"/>.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html epub" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
