<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="policies-for-macbook-administrators">
  <title>Policies for MacBook Administrators</title>
  <body>
    <note>This document is Legacy IA Policy. It is under review and likely to be withdrawn or substantially revised soon.
      Before using this content for a project, contact <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/catemail"/>.</note>
    <p>All User accounts are created as 'Admin' to allow for software installation as part of normal business requirements.</p>
    <p>Each laptop has a separate Admin account (created on build) to allow for User deletion and password resets</p>
    <p>These policies must be adhered to by all MacBook Fleet Administrators.</p>
  </body>
  <topic id="why">
    <title>Why?</title>
    <body>
      <p>These policies ensure two things:
      <ol>
        <li>That administrators have a clear understanding of what is considered acceptable, so that they do not inadvertently perform an administrative action which is later considered unacceptable.</li>
        <li>In the event that a security incident does occur in relation to the MacBook Fleet, that there is a clear policy which can be referred to, to support any action that is taken.</li>
      </ol></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="actions-requiring-authorisation">
    <title>Actions requiring authorisation</title>
    <body>
      <p>The following actions require formal authorisation (e.g. an email confirming that the action can proceed) from at least 2 of the following 3:
      <ul>
        <li>The Chief Digital Officer.</li>
        <li>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/cisolong"/> for the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/>.</li>
        <li>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Digital Information Assurance Lead.</li>
      </ul></p>
      <p>Actions:
      <ol>
        <li>Creating a Mac account for a non <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> member of Staff.</li>
        <li>Access any other users' locally held data (active or suspended).</li>
        <li>Transfer any user's locally held data (active or suspended) to another user.
        This also requires a request from the business area Service Manager.</li>
      </ol></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="things-you-must-do">
    <title>Things you must do</title>
    <body>
      <ol>
        <li>Maintain the active list of all active users.</li>
        <li>Raise an incident with the Operational Security Team (<ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ostemail"/>) and inform <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> security (<ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/securityemail"/>) and the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ciso"/> when leaving Staff have not returned all <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> assets in their possession.</li>
        <li>If anyone who has a MacBook account leaves the organisation for any reason.</li>
        <li>Retrieve the Users equipment and suspend the account.</li>
        <li>If requested by a Head of Profession, transfer user's data to a user decided on by their line manager.
          This also requires a request from the business area Service Manager.</li>
        <li>On a minimum quarterly basis conduct a random percentage audit to check the encryption status of Mac Books and/or Airs.</li>
      </ol>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
