<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="policies-for-google-apps-administrators">
  <title>Policies for Google Apps administrators</title>
  <body>
    <note>This document is Legacy IA Policy. It is under review and likely to be withdrawn or substantially revised soon.
      Before using this content for a project, contact <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/catemail"/>.</note>
    <p>These policies must be adhered to by all Google Administrators, including Super Administrators.
      All Administrator activity is recorded, auditable and notified to all other Administrators.</p>
  </body>
  <topic id="why">
    <title>Why?</title>
    <body>
      <p>These policies ensure two things:
      <ol>
        <li>That administrators have a clear understanding of what is considered acceptable, so that they do not inadvertently perform an administrative action which is later considered unacceptable.</li>
        <li>In the event that a security incident does occur in relation to Google Apps,
        that there is a clear policy which can be referred to, to support any action that is taken.</li>
      </ol></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="actions-requiring-authorisation">
    <title>Actions requiring authorisation</title>
    <body>
      <p>The following actions require formal authorisation (e.g. an email confirming that the action can proceed) from at least 2 of the following 3:
      <ul>
        <li>The Chief Digital Officer.</li>
        <li>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/cisolong"/> for the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/>.</li>
        <li>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Digital Information Assurance Lead.</li>
      </ul></p>
    </body>
    <topic id="actions">
      <title>Actions:</title>
      <body>
        <ol>
          <li>Elevate any single user access to administrator from non-administrator.</li>
          <li>Access any other users' emails or data (active or suspended).</li>
          <li>Changing any 'global' configuration within Google Apps which affects all users.</li>
          <li>Transfer any user's data (active or suspended) to another user. This also requires a request from the business area Service Manager.</li>
        </ol>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="things-you-must-do">
    <title>Things you must do</title>
    <body>
      <ol>
        <li>Maintain the active list of all users (active and suspended) and maintain their access control to applications.</li>
        <li>If anyone who has a Google Apps account leaves the organisation for any reason.</li>
        <li>Suspend the account.</li>
        <li>Transfer user's data to a user decided on by their line manager.
          This also requires a request from the business area Service Manager.</li>
        <li>On a minimum quarterly basis (rota'd with other Admins) conduct an audit to check:
        <ul>
        <li>Any escalation of privileges from non-administrator to administrator.</li>
        <li>Any forwarding of email accounts.</li>
        <li>Any taking ownership of User accounts.</li>
        </ul></li>
      </ol>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="feedback" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
