<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="privileged-user-backups-removable-media-and-incident-management-guide">
  <title>Privileged User Backups, Removable Media and Incident Management Guide</title>
  <body/>
  <topic id="introduction">
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <body>
      <p>This guide outlines the security procedures and advice for privileged users to reduce the impact of security incidents,
        and improve the response to them.
        This guide is a sub-page to the <xref href="privileged-user-guide.dita" format="dita">Privileged User Guide</xref>.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="removable-media">
    <title>Removable media</title>
    <body>
      <p>Whether moving data to the Cloud or accepting data from third parties,
        removable media increases the risk of malware being introduced to systems,
        and could result in the loss of critical or sensitive <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> data.
        Privileged users play an important role in managing this risk,
        and must follow the points below.
      <ul>
        <li>Any data transferred from removable media to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> systems should be scanned for malware
          before being uploaded to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> systems.
          One option is to adopt a <q>sheep dip</q>.
          This is a segregated system with anti-virus and other security tools.
          It is used to conduct security scans before data is introduced to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> systems.
          This reduces,
          but does not eliminate,
          the risk that removable media is used as a threat vector for malware.</li>
        <li>The origin of any removable media must be established to understand the risk it poses.</li>
        <li>If removable media is required for standard system operations,
          privileged users must ensure data is encrypted at rest,
          and has suitable physical security controls in place.
          These include locking rooms where data is stored or using safes for storing removable media.<!--See the <xref href="information-and-data-security-policy.dita" format="dita">Information and Data Security Policy</xref> for further information.--></li>
        <li>Removable media must not be used for a system's operation
          unless it is approved by the Senior Information Risk Officer (SIRO).
          Advice should be sought from a risk advisor in the Cyber Assistance Team,
          contact details given <xref href="#contact-details" format="dita">below</xref>.</li>
      </ul></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="system-backups">
    <title>System backups</title>
    <body>
      <p>Privileged users need to ensure that there are backups of system data in order to minimise the impact of incidents,
        such as malware infection or data loss.
        Privileged users must:
      <ul>
        <li>Follow the IT system's data backup schedule to meet the required Recovery Point Objective.</li>
        <li>Assign all backup media,
          whether physical or in the Cloud,
          a Protective Marking,
          and provide appropriate protection based on that marking.
          Backup material must only be accessible to those who have a <q>need-to-know</q>,
          defined by the System Owner.</li>
        <li>Ensure backups are kept off-site in a secure location.
          In a Cloud environment,
          this would equate to a resilient data store,
          such as AWS Backup or Azure Backup services.</li>
        <li>Where required,
          encryption types employed to prevent disclosure are outlined in the Information Risk Assessment Report (IRAR).
          Details of applicable encryption standards required are outlined in
          the <xref href="technical-security-controls-guide.dita" format="dita">Technical Controls Guide</xref>.</li>
      </ul></p>
      <p>Guidance for system specific privileged users:
      <ul>
        <li>Where responsible for DOM1 systems,
          ensure backups are made to offsite locations such as to Dell EMC SANs in
          the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> off-site Ark and Ark-F data centres.</li>
        <li>Where responsible for Quantum systems,
          ensure backups are made to the redundant data centre.</li>
        <li>Where responsible for end user data,
          ensure data is not stored on or backed up to users' end devices but rather stored on OneDrive or Google Drive.</li>
      </ul></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="incident-management-and-response">
    <title>Incident management and response</title>
    <body>
      <p>Privileged users play a front-line role in detecting and responding to incidents.
        To ensure that they are prepared to respond to any incidents,
        privileged users must follow the points below.
      <ul>
        <li>If privileged users identify a suspected or known security breach through their regular system monitoring,
          they must report it immediately to the System Manager,
          the Risk Advisor (part of the <xref href="#contact-details" format="dita">Cyber Assistance Team</xref>)
          and the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s
          <xref href="#general-enquiries-including-theft-and-loss" format="dita">Technology Service Desk</xref> for any incidents involving technology.
          Incidents will then be escalated to the Operational Security Team (OST) (<ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ostemail"/>).
          For non-technology incidents,
          where security issues not related to IT have been identified,
          contact the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Group Security Team (<ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/groupsecurityemail"/>).
          Security breaches can include personnel,
          hardware,
          software,
          communications,
          data and information or physical security breaches.
          See the <xref href="incident-management-plan-and-process-guide.dita" format="dita">Incident Management Policy and Guide</xref> for further details.</li>
        <li>Privileged users must know and be able to implement the incident management plans and processes required for their systems.
          For instance,
          within HMPPS,
          privileged users should know that the HMPPS Incident Management function operates within the HMPPS Infosec and Service Team,
          and when they are to be contacted.</li>
        <li>Any system-specific incident management controls must align with the <xref href="it-disaster-recovery-policy.dita" format="dita"><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s IT Disaster Recovery Policy</xref> and the <xref href="incident-management-plan-and-process-guide.dita" format="dita">Incident Management Policy and Guide</xref>.</li>
      </ul></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="incidents" conref="conrefs.dita#incidents"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="general-enquiries-including-theft-and-loss" conref="conrefs.dita#general-enquiries-including-theft-and-loss"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#contact-details"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html epub" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
