<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="protecting-whatsapp-accounts">
  <title>Protecting WhatsApp accounts</title>
  <body>
    <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> <xref href="general-user-video-and-messaging-apps-guidance.dita#approved-tools/approved-tools" format="dita" platform="html">permits</xref><xref href="general-user-video-and-messaging-apps-guidance.dita#approved-tools" format="dita" platform="epub pdf">permits</xref> the use of <xref href="https://www.whatsapp.com/" format="html" scope="external">WhatsApp</xref> for text messaging, voice and video calls, as long as you avoid using it for business tasks involving personal or sensitive data.</p>
    <p>You <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> always keep WhatsApp account details safe and secure. Accounts are normally associated with specific devices. When you register your device with a WhatsApp account, that provides some protection. Only the registered device can send or receive messages associated with you.</p>
    <p>Unfortunately, device registration is a tempting target for <xref href="glossary.dita#terms/threat-actor" format="dita">threat actors</xref>. It is seen as a way for potential compromise of user data, including backups of conversations, and contact lists.</p>
    <p>A compromised account might also be used to attack other people. A threat actor can pretend to be a user, and so target other contacts. Eventually, they might make their way to compromise a high-value target.</p>
    <p>An example scenario might be where an attack is made on the WhatsApp account belonging to a family member of an <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> employee. After compromising the victim's WhatsApp account, the threat actor can pretend to be the family member and so contact the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> employee through the contact list. Naturally, the employee would be likely to trust the message as having come from the family member.</p>
  </body>
  <topic id="how-a-whatsapp-attack-works">
    <title>How a WhatsApp attack works</title>
    <body>
      <note>This document does not provide full details of how to attack a WhatsApp account. We just provide enough information to understand what protective steps are required.</note>
      <p>Registering a device with a WhatsApp account uses an authentication code (a PIN code). The threat actor tricks the victim into revealing the device registration code. They then deregister the victim's device from the WhatsApp account, in favour of the attacker's device.</p>
      <p>The key point is the authentication code. It's very important to keep this secret, just like a password.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="protecting-your-whatsapp-account">
    <title>Protecting your WhatsApp account</title>
    <body>
      <p>If your WhatsApp account is compromised, you can often recover it by reconnecting to WhatsApp using your device telephone number. A 6-digit SMS verification code is sent to the phone, which you enter into the app. When your device is reauthenticated in this way, the threat actor is automatically disconnected, and cannot reconnect without a fresh authentication code.</p>
      <p>While recovering an account, you might be asked to provide a two-step verification code. If you don't have this already, it might indicate that the threat actor has enabled two-step verification without your knowledge. Without the code, you must wait 7 days before you can sign in to WhatsApp. However, the threat actor will have been disconnected from the account immediately when the 6-digit SMS verification code was sent. Although you can't get into your account for a week, the threat actor cannot get into your account at all.</p>
      <p>When you reconnect into your WhatsApp account, check for and unlink all unknown devices. <ph id="how2check">Do this by checking <uicontrol>Linked Devices</uicontrol> in the WhatsApp settings menu.</ph></p>
      <p>Enable two-step verification on your account, so that any future attempt to register device will require a PIN to enable the app. <ph id="enable2fa">Do this by going into the <uicontrol>Settings</uicontrol> then <uicontrol>Account</uicontrol> menu on the app, and selecting the <uicontrol>Two-step verification option</uicontrol>.</ph></p>
      <p>If you think something is suspicious about your <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> account, or the messages sent or received using that account, contact the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/securityemailtext"/> and ask for help as soon as possible.</p>
      <p>Always follow <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> policy regarding applications for conducting official business or storing business-related information. In particular, do not use unapproved applications for conducting <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> official business, and do not use unapproved applications for storing <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> business-related data. Always use <xref href="general-user-video-and-messaging-apps-guidance.dita" format="dita">approved applications</xref> and <xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/guidance/knowledge-information/" format="html" scope="external">storage tools</xref>.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="whatsapp-account-dos-and-donts">
    <title>WhatsApp account do's and dont's</title>
    <body>
      <p><b>Do</b> ask <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/securityemailtext"/> for help if you think your WhatsApp account has been compromised.</p>
      <p><b>Do</b> enable two-step verification on your account. <ph conref="#protecting-your-whatsapp-account/enable2fa"/></p>
      <p><b>Do</b> advise everyone on your contact list if you think your WhatsApp account has been compromised.</p>
      <p><b>Do</b> check the list of linked devices at regular intervals, looking for unknown or unexpected devices. <ph conref="#protecting-your-whatsapp-account/how2check"/></p>
      <p><b>Do not</b> share a WhatsApp one time passcode, password, or authentication code with anyone.</p>
      <p><b>Do not</b> use unapproved or unauthorised applications for work purposes.</p>
      <p><b>Do not</b> use personal accounts for work purposes.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#contact-details"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
