<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="public-protest-and-demonstrations-policy">
  <title>Public protest and demonstrations policy</title>
  <body/>
  <topic id="audience">
    <title>Audience</title>
    <body>
      <ol>
        <li>
          <p>This policy compliments the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> overall security
policy.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>This Public Protest Policy applies to all employees, contractors,
partners and service providers, including those on co-located sites
and sites owned by other public bodies. This includes
employees of other organisations who are based in, or work at,
              <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> occupied premises.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Agencies and arm's length bodies (ALBs) <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> comply with
this corporate framework but <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policycan"/> establish their own arrangements
tailored to operational needs and <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> supplement the framework with local
policy or guidance for any business-specific risk.</p>
        </li>
      </ol>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="objective">
    <title>Objective</title>
    <body>
      <ol>
        <li>
          <p>To provide our employees, contractors, partners and other interested
parties with enough guidance to take proportionate measures in case
of public protest or demonstration.</p>
        </li>
      </ol>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="scope-and-definition">
    <title>Scope and Definition:</title>
    <body>
      <ol>
        <li>
          <p>Protests take different forms, ranging from action by one person
acting alone to a demonstration attended by thousands of people. In
some instances, the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> might have advance notice of a
public protest, in other instances the protests might be unannounced or spontaneous.
This policy aims to ensure that the response to all protests are
managed proportionately and consistently.</p>
        </li>
      </ol>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="context">
    <title>Context</title>
    <body>
      <ol>
        <li>
          <p>Freedom of speech and the right to peacefully protest is protected
by law, both under common law and the Human Rights Act 1998.
However, freedom of speech and the right to peacefully protest are
not absolute, and the exercise of those rights can be restricted
provided any restrictions:</p>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <p>are prescribed in law;</p>
            </li>
            <li>
              <p>are necessary and proportionate; and</p>
            </li>
            <li>
              <p>pursue one or more of these aims:</p>
              <ul>
                <li>
                  <p>the interests of national security or public safety;</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                  <p>the prevention of disorder or crime;</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                  <p>the protection of health or morals;</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                  <p>the protection of other's rights and freedoms.</p>
                </li>
              </ul>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>The rights of those protesting need to be balanced with the rights
of others to go about their business without fear of intimidation or
having serious disruption to their community.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymight"/> be the subject of protests and demonstration
by various activist groups seeking publicity for a specific cause or
case.</p>
        </li>
      </ol>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="responsibilities">
    <title>Responsibilities</title>
    <body>
      <ol>
        <li>
          <p>All employees, contractors, partners, service providers and
employees of other organisations who are on <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
premises and co-located sites remain accountable for the security,
health and safety of themselves, colleagues and the protection of
Departmental Assets.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>The building's security team <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> adapt their process and
procedures in line with the advice given to organisations and
businesses in central London by the Metropolitan Police Service or
their local police force.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Buildings located in Central London, within the Government Security
Zone (GSZ), receive information from the GSZ control room about
proposed protests – either from information provided by the
organisers or through monitoring social media.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Following any public protest or demonstration, the most senior grade
based at the site, or in Moderate Risk and larger sites, the Senior
Responsible Officer (SRO), has responsibility for ensuring that
detailed records are kept of any incidents, including:</p>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <p>the identity of those involved;</p>
            </li>
            <li>
              <p>the date, time and location;</p>
            </li>
            <li>
              <p>the behaviour involved;</p>
            </li>
            <li>
              <p>the impact (damage, injury and disruption etc.); and</p>
            </li>
            <li>
              <p>any warnings issued or other steps taken to defuse the situation.</p>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ol>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="policy-statements">
    <title>Policy Statements</title>
    <body>
      <ol>
        <li>
          <p>The buildings' incident control plan <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> be reviewed regularly to
ensure that it is up-to-date with good communication systems for the
Incident Control Officer or Deputy Incident Control Officer to direct
matters.</p>
        </li>
      </ol>
    </body>
    <topic id="managing-the-site-including-security-detail">
      <title>Managing the site, including security detail</title>
      <body>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p>Minimise the number of entry points to the building.</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Ensure the outside areas are clear of debris, dustbins, ladders,
tools, or equipment.</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Check that emergency equipment, grab bags, first aid supplies, and
personal radios are in place, easily accessible and working
properly. It is advisable to test them beforehand.</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Check and test building security and emergency systems.</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Ensure CCTV coverage is fully operational and can provide the
highest recording resolution possible.</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>If your building has scaffolding erected or is near scaffolding, let
your security staff know.</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Report and suspicious activity to police by dialling 999 in an
emergency or call 101 if not an emergency.</p>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="people-management-and-communication">
      <title>People management and communication</title>
      <body>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p>In the days leading up to a planned event, ensure all employees are
fully briefed.</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>The building <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> have a strong, visible management presence who
                <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> identify themselves to the police in the event of any
trespassing or damage.</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Security officers, where possible, <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> be highly visible.</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>All staff <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> remain vigilant and report any suspicious activity
to security or the police.</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Ensure all members of staff are fully aware of any emergency and
evacuation procedures.</p>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="compliance">
    <title>Compliance</title>
    <body>
      <ol>
        <li>
          <p>The level of risk and potential impact to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> assets and most
importantly physical harm to our people and the public
determines the controls to be applied and the degree of assurance
required. The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/>
              ensure a baseline of physical security measures
are in place at each site and receive annual assurance that such
measures are in place to provide appropriate protection to all
occupants and assets, and that these measures can be strengthened
when required, such as in response to a security incident or change in
the Government Response Level.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>The implementation of all security measures <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be able to provide
evidence that the selection was been made in accordance with the
appropriate information security standards ISO27001/27002, Physical
Security advice taken from the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/cpnilong"/> and <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/gov007"/>.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>The constantly changing security landscape has necessarily dictated
that Physical Security measures be constantly re-evaluated and
tested in order to meet new threats and other emerging
vulnerabilities. This policy and subsequent supporting standards
              <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be subject to annual review or more frequently if warranted.</p>
        </li>
      </ol>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="physical-security-advice">
    <title>Physical security advice</title>
    <body>
      <ol>
        <li>
          <p>Physical security advice can be obtained by contacting <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/groupsecurityemailtext"/>.</p>
        </li>
      </ol>
    </body>
  </topic>
    <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/contact-details"><title/></topic>
    <topic id="feedback" platform="html" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
