<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ransomware">
  <title>Ransomware</title>
  <body>
    <p>Ransomware is a type of malicious software created or used by cybercriminals.
      It prevents people or businesses from accessing their own data.
      The software takes hold of the data,
      holding it "hostage",
      until a ransom payment is made to release it.</p>
  </body>
  <topic id="preventing-ransomware-from-taking-hold-of-information">
    <title>Preventing Ransomware from taking hold of information</title>
    <body>
      <ul>
        <li>Store all your information in official <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> systems.
          This is general best practice,
          and also minimises the risk of the data being accessed by the hackers.</li>
        <li>Use a secure antivirus and firewall software.
          All official <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> systems
          have these installed as standard.</li>
        <li>Use a trustworthy VPN when accessing public networks through wifi,
          for example when working remotely in a coffee shop.
          All official <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> systems
          have a suitable VPN installed as standard.</li>
        <li>Ensure your laptop computer is updated regularly.
          All official <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> systems
          do this for you automatically,
          as standard.</li>
        <li>Use multi-factor authentication (MFA) methods.
          Most <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> systems support MFA,
          but you might have to enable it yourself.</li>
        <li>Do not provide any personal information to unknown contacts.</li>
        <li>Avoid unsecure apps or websites.</li>
      </ul>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="things-to-look-out-for-if-you-suspect-you-have-become-victim-to-a-ransomware-attack">
    <title>Things to look out for if you suspect you have become victim to a ransomware attack</title>
    <body>
      <ul>
        <li>Unable to open documents.</li>
        <li>Suspicious file names.
          Files encrypted by ransomware tend to end with <codeph>.crypted</codeph> or <codeph>.cryptor</codeph>,
          rather than the more typical names such as <codeph>.docx</codeph>,
          <codeph>.pdf</codeph>,
          or <codeph>.jpeg</codeph>.</li>
          <li>An unrecognised pop-up screen prevents access to your computer.</li>
      </ul>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="what-to-do-if-you-think-a-ransomware-attack-is-affecting-your-system">
    <title>What to do if you think a ransomware attack is affecting your system</title>
    <body>
      <p>In the event of a ransomware attack,
        or if you have suspicions one may be taking place,
        the first thing to do is to <xref href="#incidents-and-contact-details"
        format="dita">contact your local <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/servicedesk"/></xref>.</p>
      <p>With your help, the IT team attempt to determine which systems have been impacted,
        and can isolate them immediately.
        You might be asked to disconnect all your devices from the network or wifi connection,
        to prevent a further spread of attacks throughout the business.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="incidents-and-contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/incidents-and-contact-details"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html epub" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
