<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="removable-media">
  <title>Removable Media</title>
  <body>
    <note>Any <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> systems or removable storage media used for work purposes
      must be encrypted to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> security standards.
      Security encryption is a mandatory government measure,
      and one of the most important methods we have to protect <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> information.</note>
  </body>
  <topic id="what-is-removable-media">
    <title>What is 'removable' media?</title>
    <body>
      <p>Laptops and <xref href="#usb-memory-sticks" format="dita">USB memory sticks</xref> are the
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s most commonly used items of removable media.
        Removable storage media covers items available to users,
        such as USB memory sticks,
        writeable CDs/DVDs, floppy discs, and external hard drives.</p>
      <p>Strictly speaking, magnetic tapes are also removable storage media,
        but it would be very unusual for the average user to have access to or to use magnetic tapes for business purposes.</p>
      <p><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> security guidance specifies that USB memory sticks and other
        user-removable media should not be used to store departmental data.
        Only in exceptional circumstances,
        and where there is compelling business justification,
        should <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>-approved USB sticks with device encryption be used.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="usb-memory-sticks">
    <title>USB memory sticks</title>
    <body>
      <p>This guidance is intended to ensure that <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> data remains secure,
        and to mitigate the potential impact of lost data sticks.
      <ol>
        <li>You must only connect approved external removable storage media to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> systems.</li>
        <li>Connecting non-approved memory sticks is a breach of <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> security guidelines,
        and could result in disciplinary action.</li>
        <li>If there is a genuine business requirement to save, retrieve or transfer data via removable media,
        fill in one of:
        <ul>
          <li><xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/documents/2015/04/removable-media-business-case-form-for-usb-sticks.doc" format="doc" scope="external">Removable
          media business case form</xref></li>
          <li><xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/documents/2015/04/data-movement-form.doc" format="doc" scope="external">Data Movement form</xref></li>
        </ul>
        Additional guidance information is available about
          the <xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/documents/2015/04/data-movement-form-guide.doc" format="doc" scope="external">Data Movement form</xref>.
          When the form is ready, send it to: <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ostemail"/>.</li>
        <li>Each request is evaluated by <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Operational Security,
        with a view to recommending the safest and most appropriate method to contain risk of loss.</li>
        <li>Normally, you'll get a response within 5 working days.</li>
        <li>Requests to use a memory stick or other removable media will normally only be granted when there is no other practical alternative.
        Where approval is granted.
        only encrypted memory sticks or other removable devices provided by the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> are allowed.
        Use of memory sticks or other removable devices will be subject to stringent conditions,
        and permitted only after user training.</li>
      </ol></p>
      <p>If you need further assistance or information about this process,
      <xref href="#contact-details" format="dita">ask</xref>.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="how-do-i-know-if-my-laptop-or-usb-stick-is-encrypted">
    <title>How do I know if my laptop, or USB stick, is encrypted?</title>
    <body>
      <p>All equipment provided through the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s recognised central procurement
        systems are encrypted and protected to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> security standards.
        You must use <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> processes to obtain any equipment used for business purposes,
        including mobile computing devices and removable media.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="whats-expected-of-you">
    <title>What's expected of you</title>
    <body>
      <p>Keeping <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> information safe is everyone's responsibility.
        Anyone using portable computing equipment must take particular care
        to safeguard the equipment and the information stored on it.
        Failure to do so may result in disciplinary procedures.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/contact-details"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html epub" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
