<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="risk-reviews">
    <title>Risk <ph platform="github">Reviews</ph><ph platform="intranet">assessment</ph></title>
  <body>
    <p>Information and the supporting processes, systems and networks are important and valuable <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> assets.
      They are central to enabling the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> to perform its functions and provide services to the public,
      the legal professions,
      and other government departments and organisations.</p>
    <p>Confidentiality, integrity and availability of information is essential to maintain
      the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s ability to provide efficient and effective services,
      maintain compliance with legal and regulatory requirements,
      and maintain its and the Government's reputation.</p>
    <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> and its information systems and networks are faced with
      security threats from a wide range of sources,
      including computer-assisted fraud, sabotage, vandalism, fire and flood.
      Sources of damage such as computer viruses, computer hacking and denial of service attacks have become more common,
      more ambitious and increasingly sophisticated.</p>
    <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s dependence on its information systems and services
      means that there is always a possibility of technology-enabled security threats.
      Connections between the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s computer networks and public and other private networks,
      and sharing of information resources,
      further increase the difficulty of achieving and maintaining control.</p>
    <p>It is essential that the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> identify its information security requirements.
      There are three main sources of these requirements.
    <ul>
      <li>The legal, statutory, regulatory and contractual requirements that the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>,
      its partners, contractors and service providers have to satisfy.</li>
      <li>The principles, objectives and requirements for information processing that the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
      and Government have developed to support their operations,
      for example the protective marking system and government baseline security standards.</li>
      <li>Assessed risks to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.
      Through risk assessment,
      threats to assets are identified,
      the potential business impacts of these threats are estimated,
      and the vulnerability to and likelihood of occurrence of the threats are evaluated.</li>
    </ul></p>
  </body>
  <topic id="assessing-information-security-risk">
    <title>Assessing information security risk</title>
    <body>
      <p>Security requirements are identified by a methodical assessment of security risks.
        Expenditure on security controls needs to be balanced against the business harm likely to result from security failures.
        Risk assessment is systematic consideration of:
      <ul>
        <li>The business harm (the 'impact') which is likely to result from a security failure,
        taking into account the potential consequences of a loss of confidentiality,
        integrity or availability of the information and other assets.</li>
        <li>The realistic likelihood of such a failure occurring in the light of the threats to and vulnerabilities of the system,
        and the controls currently implemented.</li>
      </ul></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="managing-information-security-risks">
    <title>Managing information security risks</title>
    <body>
      <p>The results of the risk assessment are identified risks and risk severities.
        These help guide and determine the appropriate management action,
        and priorities for managing information security risks.
        Risks with a high severity level would justify the expenditure of more resources to control them
        than risks with a low severity level.
        Risk Management involves identification,
        selection and implementation of justified security and contingency 'countermeasures'
        to reduce risks to an acceptable level.</p>
      <p>Countermeasures can act in different ways such as:
      <ul>
        <li>Reducing the likelihood of attacks or incidents occurring.</li>
        <li>Reducing the system's vulnerability.</li>
        <li>Reducing the impact of an attack or incident should it occur.</li>
        <li>Detecting the occurrence of attacks or incidents.</li>
        <li>Facilitating recovery from an attack or incident.</li>
      </ul></p>
      <p>Risk management requires a judgement about what is an acceptable level of risk.
        Although this is a business decision,
        it does require a thorough understanding of the nature of the risk
        and the effectiveness of the countermeasures implemented to manage the risk.
        For some systems or scenarios,
        specialist advice might be needed.</p>
      <p>When taking risk management decisions,
        consideration must be given to the full implications of the decisions taken.
        Failure to implement some countermeasures might breach legal or regulatory requirements.
        This is unlikely to be an acceptable risk management decision.
        Failure to meet other countermeasures might breach Government information security standards;
        as a consequence it might not be possible to link the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> system with other systems.
        This might limit the usefulness of the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> system.</p>
      <p>Consideration must also be given to what are tolerable financial losses,
        political sensitivities and adverse publicity.
        The cumulative effect of accepting high levels of risk should also be taken into account.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="information-security-in-projects">
    <title>Information security in projects</title>
    <body>
      <p>Information security controls are considerably cheaper and more effective
        if incorporated at the system requirements specification and design stage.
        Information risk assessments must be part of the project process.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="ongoing-information-security-risk-management">
    <title>Ongoing information security risk management</title>
    <body>
      <p>Effective risk management does not end once a risk assessment has been done
        and the required countermeasures implemented.
        Checks need to be carried out to ensure that the countermeasures are being applied effectively.
        It is also important to carry out periodic reviews of security risks and implemented controls to:
      <ul>
        <li>Take account of changes to business requirements and priorities.</li>
        <li>Consider new threats and vulnerabilities.</li>
        <li>Confirm that controls remain effective and appropriate.</li>
      </ul></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="the-role-of-security-in-risk-assessment-and-risk-management">
    <title>The role of security in risk assessment and risk management</title>
    <body>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> security team can provide help in all areas of security risk management for systems.
        Examples include:
      <ul>
        <li>Advice on risk assessments.</li>
        <li>Help with carrying out risk assessments.</li>
        <li>Assist with the risk management decision process.</li>
        <li>Help with creating and managing documentation compliant with <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> standards.</li>
        <li>Assisting with mandatory Government risk assessments.</li>
        <li>Advice on compliance checking.</li>
      </ul></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/contact-details"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
