<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="security-clearance-appeals-policy">
  <title>Security clearance appeals policy</title>
  <body>
    <p>The Cluster 2 Security Unit (C2SU) forms part of the
      Transforming Government Security programme,
      which aims to standardise and strengthen operational
      security across Government.</p>
    <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> is part of Cluster 2,
      and so must adhere to this policy.</p>
    <p>This policy applies to permanent members of staff and contractors'
      employees employed on the work of the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>,
      and those organisations for which the Cluster 2 Security Unit
      holds the responsibility for vetting,
      including non-departmental public bodies (NDPBs).</p>
    <p>It also applies to:
    <ul>
      <li>Existing contractors' employees or other non-permanent staff,
        who are already engaged in the work of the
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</li>
      <li>Existing permanent members of staff of other government departments
        and organisations who have applied for a security clearance with the
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</li>
      <li>Existing contractors' employees already engaged on government work
        in other departments and organisations who have applied for a
        security clearance with the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</li>
    </ul></p>
    <p>It <i>does not apply</i> to individuals on initial recruitment to
      the Civil Service seeking a first security clearance for permanent employment
      or contractual work with the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</p>
    <p>It <i>does</i> include existing employees of a contractor who are newly deployed
      to contracted work for the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</p>
    </body>
    <topic id="policy">
      <title>Policy</title>
      <body>
        <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> provides a right of
          internal appeal to the Permanent Secretary where an individual who
          falls within the scope of this policy has a security clearance refused
          or withdrawn by the Cluster 2 Security Unit.
          The appeal <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> be submitted
          within 15 working days of notification of the refusal or withdrawal decision.</p>
          <p>Where the Permanent Secretary upholds the vetting decision to refuse
            or withdraw security clearance,
            there is a further avenue of appeal to the independent
            Security Vetting Appeals Panel (SVAP).
            This appeal <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> be
            submitted within 28 days of notification that the vetting decision has
            been upheld.</p>
            <p>To achieve this requirement,
              the Cluster 2 Security Unit must:
              <ul>
                <li>Ensure that the decision to refuse or withdraw national security
                  clearance for an existing permanent or contracted employee (as
                  identified previously) is communicated to the individual
                  promptly and in writing.</li>
                <li>Ensure that the individual is given the full reasons for the decision,
                  and the relevant facts upon which it was based,
                  as far as considerations of security and confidentiality allow.</li>
                <li>Provide the employee with a clear explanation of their right to an
                  internal appeal and the mechanisms by which they can make that appeal,
                  and of their entitlement,
                  should they remain dissatisfied with the outcome,
                  to appeal to the Security Vetting Appeals Panel (SVAP).</li>
                <li>Ensure the appeal process will be carried out independently from the
                  vetting decision makers and anyone involved in the original decision
                  to refuse or withdraw clearance.
                  The process will also - as far as issues of national security
                  and confidentiality allow - be undertaken with transparency,
                  providing a fair opportunity for the appellant
                  to address the reasons for the decision.</li>
                </ul></p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="further-guidance">
      <title>Further guidance</title>
      <body>
        <p>Detailed guidance on the processes and timescales for internal and
          external appeals is given in the Security Clearance Appeals Procedures.</p>
        <p platform="github">More information about the Security Clearance Appeals Procedures can
          be obtained from <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/groupsecurityemailtext"/>.</p>
        <p platform="intranet">More information about the Security Clearance Appeals Procedures can
          be found on the <xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/" format="html" scope="external"><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
            Intranet</xref>.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/contact-details"><title/></topic>
    <topic id="feedback" platform="html epub" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
