<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="security-breach-policy">
  <title>Security breach policy</title>
  <body>
      <p>This document provides an overview of the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> Corporate Security Breach
          Policy, which applies across the entire estate, including the Ministry's agencies and other related offices.</p>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> takes its responsibilities for security seriously.
          All <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> employees,
          including contractors and agency staff,
          have a duty to comply with <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> security policies.
          These policies exist to:
          <ul>
              <li>Protect employees, visitors and service users from injury or harm.</li>
              <li>Protect <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> assets from loss or damage.</li>
              <li>Enable the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> to maintain business continuity and public
                  confidence.</li>
          </ul></p>
      <p>A security breach is defined as any violation of these responsibilities.
          This includes a range of behaviour,
          such as:
          <ul>
              <li>Failing to wear security access passes in pass controlled buildings.</li>
              <li>Failing to comply with clear desk policies.</li>
              <li>Failing to protect sensitive information or assets,
                  and passing on sensitive data to third parties without the proper authority.</li>
          </ul>
          <note>This list is not comprehensive.</note></p>
      <p>Such behaviour constitutes a form of misconduct that <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymay"/> then result
          in disciplinary action being taken against an employee,
          in accordance with the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Disciplinary Policy.
          Failure of a contractor to comply <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymight"/> lead to the cancellation of
          a contract.
          In certain circumstances,
          legal action <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymight"/> also be taken.</p>
  </body>
    <topic id="scope">
        <title>Scope</title>
        <body>
            <ul>
                <li>Each agency and business area within the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> is responsible for
                    developing arrangements for applying the principles of this policy.</li>
            </ul>
        </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="principles">
        <title>Principles</title>
        <body>
            <ol>
                <li>All employees,
                    including contractors and agency staff,
                    <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> observe security policies.
                    This includes adherence to the requirements of the Official Secrets Act,
                    Civil Service Code of Conduct,
                    <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Security and IT policies,
                    and any local or agency level security instructions.</li>
                <li>Across the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> estate,
                    there <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be arrangements in place to ensure the
                    effective identification and investigation of security breaches,
                    whether committed by employees or other persons.
                    These <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be recorded centrally as security incidents to
                    ensure trends are identified,
                    and if necessary analysed to ensure adequacy of controls.</li>
                <li>Each organisation across the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> estate
                    <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> publish specific guidance to ensure its managers
                    and all employees clearly understand that a breach of their security responsibilities
                    <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> constitute a form of misconduct.
                    The guidance <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> define whether the breach constitutes a
                    minor,
                    a serious,
                    or a gross misconduct.
                    Managers <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> then decide whether to take disciplinary
                    action according to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> (or HMPPS) policies,
                    considering the following factors:
                    <ul>
                        <li>The damage or potential damage of the breach.</li>
                        <li>Any level of intent,
                            including decisions to ignore a problem or issue,
                            or deliberately leak sensitive information.</li>
                        <li>Whether a previous warning was given to the employee.</li>
                    </ul></li>
            </ol>
        </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="roles-and-responsibilities">
        <title>Roles and Responsibilities</title>
        <body>
            <p>Everyone has a role to play in ensuring that we work in a safe and secure environment,
                and that the data and other sensitive assets we manage are correctly protected.
                Security procedures apply equally to all who work in the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>,
                including ministers,
                special advisors,
                permanent secretaries,
                judicial officers,
                contractors,
                and other staff.</p>
        </body>
    </topic>

    <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/contact-details"><title/></topic>
    <topic id="feedback" platform="html epub" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
