<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="secure-data-transfer-guide">
  <title>Secure Data Transfer Guide</title>
  <body/>
  <topic id="introduction">
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <body>
      <p>This guide outlines the security procedures and advice for
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> staff wanting to send or
        receive data securely from external sources.</p>
      <p>This is important to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>,
      because personal and sensitive data is regularly transmitted between
      departments.
      Legislation such as GDPR,
      and industry standards such as PCI DSS,
      affect the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s responsibility to
      secure this data.
      It is also important to recognise the damage that leaked sensitive data
      could cause to the vulnerable people the
      <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> works to protect.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="who-is-this-for">
    <title>Who is this for?</title>
    <body>
      <p>This policy is aimed at three audiences:
      <ol>
        <li><b>Technical users</b>: these are in-house
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Digital and Technology staff who
        are responsible for implementing controls during technical design,
        development,
        system integration,
        and operation.
        This includes DevOps,
        Software Developers,
        Technical Architects,
        and Service Owners.
        It also includes Incident Managers from the Event,
        Problem,
        Incident,
        CSI,
        and Knowledge (EPICK) Team.</li>
        <li><b>Service Providers</b>: defined as any other
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> business group,
        agency,
        contractor,
        IT supplier,
        or partner who in any way designs,
        develops,
        or supplies services (including processing,
        transmitting,
        storing data) for,
        or on behalf of,
        the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</li>
        <li><b>General users</b>: all other staff working for the
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</li>
      </ol></p>
      <p>The phrase <q>all <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> users</q>
      refers to General users,
      Technical users,
      and Service Providers as defined previously.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
      <topic id="transfer-considerations">
        <title>Transfer Considerations</title>
        <body>
          <p>Anyone handling personal or sensitive data must seek consent from
            their line manager to authorise data transfer.</p>
          <p>Before any data transfers are requested, consider the following:
          <ul>
            <li>Is it strictly necessary for the effective running of the
              <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>,
              and the care of the people it serves,
              that the data (regardless of whether the data is sensitive or not)
              is transferred?</li>
            <li>What is the nature of the information,
              its sensitivity,
              confidentiality,
              or possible value?</li>
            <li>What is the size of the data being transferred?</li>
            <li>What damage or distress might be caused to individuals as a
              result of any loss or unmanaged sharing during transfer?</li>
            <li>What implications would any loss or unmanaged sharing have for
              the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>?</li>
            <li>What information is actually necessary for the identified
              purpose?
              For example,
              is the intention to send an entire document or spreadsheet,
              when only one section,
              or specific spreadsheet columns,
              are required?</li>
            <li>Has the identity and authorisation of the information recipient
              been established?</li>
          </ul></p>
          <p>Any transfer technique used <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/>:
          <ul>
            <li>Encrypt the data over the network (in transit),
              using sufficient and appropriate encryption (currently TLS 1.2 or
              greater).</li>
            <li>Require strong authentication to ensure that both the sender and
              recipient are who they claim to be.</li>
          </ul></p>
          <p>These considerations apply when transmitting any data over a
            wireless communication network (eg Wi-Fi),
            or when the data will or might pass through an untrusted network.</p>
          <p>If the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> is the controller of
          the data being transferred,
          the security storage requirements at the destination
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be considered to ensure
          that they comply fully with the relevant regulation,
          such as PCI DSS or GDPR.</p>
          <p>When dealing with third parties,
            consider whether any data sharing agreements or contracts are in
            place that apply to the transfer of that data.
            Check whether there are any stipulations in place regarding the
            method of transfer that can or should be used.</p>
          <p>If personal data is being transferred to a third party,
            then the privacy team <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/>
            be informed,
            to decide if a Data Protection Impact Assessment is required.</p>
        </body>
      </topic>
      <topic id="data-transfer">
        <title>Data Transfer</title>
        <body>
          <p>Normally,
            files <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshouldnot"/> be
            transferred by email.
            Normally,
            files <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> be
            transferred by secure network links using appropriate protocols such
            as <codeph>https</codeph>,
            <codeph>ssh</codeph>,
            or <codeph>sftp</codeph>.
            For large files,
            such as those over 5MB,
            transfer using a secure protocol is a practical necessity,
            as many recipients will not accept emails with attachments greater
            than 5MB.</p>
        </body>
        <topic id="data-transfer-by-secure-link">
          <title>Data Transfer by Secure link</title>
          <body>
            <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s preferred method of
            data sharing is to use Microsoft Teams via Sharepoint.
            Teams has been authorised to hold <codeph>OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE</codeph>
            information.
            It is configured to provide greater granular protection through tools
            such as Azure Information Protection (AIP).
            Where possible,
            data <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> be transferred
            using Teams.</p>
            <p>Due to the diverse nature of the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s
            architecture,
            using Teams might not always be possible.
            Those in the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Digital and
            Technology team who do not have access to Microsoft Teams
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymay"/> use
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/gsuite"/> to transfer data.</p>
            <p>For more details on the actual process for a transfer,
              contact the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/catemailtext"/>.</p>
          </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="data-transfer-by-email">
          <title>Data Transfer by Email</title>
          <body>
            <p>Where it is not possible to use Microsoft Teams or
              <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/gsuite"/>,
              <b>AND</b> the data to be transferred is less than 20MB,
              email <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policycan"/> be used,
              <b>BUT</b> the following requirements
              <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be met:
            <ul>
              <li>Email communication
                <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshouldnot"/> be used to
                transfer unencrypted sensitive or personal data.
                Employees <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> note
                that emails are not designed to attach and transfer large
                amounts of data.
                The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s email system does
                not support file attachments that exceed a total of 20MB.</li>
              <li>You <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> consider
              an alternative secure method of transferring sensitive data
              wherever possible and practicable.
              If no suitable alternative is available,
              then apply an extra level of security.
              Do this by using encryption to apply a strong password to the
              sensitive data you wish to send.
              <ph id="alternative-channel">All passwords
                <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be
              transferred using an alternative method of communication to get to
              the recipient.
              Examples includes post,
              a telephone call to an agreed number,
              or by SMS text message.</ph></li>
              <li>Email messages <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/>
              contain clear instructions of the recipient's responsibilities,
              and instructions on what to do if they are not the correct
              recipient.</li>
              <li>Information sent <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/>,
              where practical,
              be enclosed in an encrypted attachment.</li>
              <li>Care <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be taken
              as to what information is placed in the subject line of the email,
              or in the accompanying message.
              Filenames or subject lines
              <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymustnot"/> reveal the
              contents of attachments.
              Filenames or subject lines
              <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymustnot"/> disclose any
              sensitive personal data.</li>
              <li>Emails <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> only be
              sent from your work email address,
              as provided by the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.
              This is to ensure that the correct privacy and security
              information is displayed.</li>
            </ul></p>
          </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="cjsm-email">
          <title>CJSM Email</title>
          <body>
            <ul>
              <li>The Criminal Justice Secure email Service (CJSM) is provided
                for criminal justice agencies and practitioners to communicate
                with each other.</li>
              <li>As a general rule,
                it <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> only be used
                for purposes relating to the criminal justice service.</li>
            </ul>
          </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="microsoft-365-encrypted-email">
          <title>Microsoft 365 Encrypted email</title>
          <body>
            <ul>
              <li>This facility is available for standard individual and generic
                <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> email accounts</li>
              <li>This method <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policycan"/> be
              used to send or receive files classified as
              <codeph>OFFICIAL</codeph>.
              It is normally used with external partners,
              agencies,
              or individuals who cannot be contacted using CJSM email.</li>
              <li>The attached files on a single email
                <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policycannot"/> exceed 25MB.</li>
            </ul>
          </body>
        </topic>
      </topic>
      <topic id="removable-storage-devices">
        <title>Removable storage devices</title>
        <body>
          <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> strongly discourages
          the use of removable storage devices such as USB devices for data
          transfer.
          However,
          if all other options are not possible,
          then removable storage devices
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymay"/> be used with caution.</p>
          <p>Any data being transferred by removable media such as a USB memory
            stick <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be encrypted.
            Encrypted portable storage devices
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be password protected
            with a <ph audience="audience-suppliers audience-tech"><xref
            href="password-management-guide.dita" format="dita">strong
            password</xref></ph><ph audience="audience-basic">strong
            password</ph>.
            <!-- FIXME -->
            <ph conref="#data-transfer-by-email/alternative-channel"/></p>
            <p>If you think you have no other option for copying or moving data,
              and have to use removable media,
              contact the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ostemailtext"/>.</p>
            <p>Ownership of any removable media used
              <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be established.
              The removable media <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/>
              be returned to the owner on completion of the transfer.
              The transferred data <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/>
              be securely erased from the storage device after transfer.</p>
            <p>Clear instructions of the recipient's responsibilities,
              and instructions on what to do if they are not the intended
              recipient,
              <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> accompany the
              removable media.</p>
            <p>Any accompanying message or filename
              <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymustnot"/> reveal the
              contents of the encrypted file.
              The sender <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> check,
              at an appropriate time,
              that the transfer has been successful,
              and obtain a receipt.
              An email confirming receipt is acceptable.</p>
            <p>Report any issues to your line manager and in the case of
              missing or corrupt data to the
              <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ostemailtext"/> immediately.</p>
        </body>
        <topic id="data-transfers-by-post-or-courier">
          <title>Data transfers by post or courier</title>
          <body>
            <p>Data transfers using physical media such as memory cards or USB
              devices <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> only be
              sent using secure post.
              Royal Mail First or Second class
              <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymustnot"/> be used.
              Royal Mail Special Delivery or Recorded Delivery
              <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policycan"/> be used.
              For non-Royal Mail services,
              a secure courier service <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/>
              be used,
              with a signature obtained upon delivery.
              The recipient <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be
              clearly stated on the parcel.
              The physical media <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/>
              be securely packaged so that it is not damaged in transit.</p>
            <p>The recipient <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> be
            told in advance that the data is being sent,
            so that they know when to expect the data.
            The recipient <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> confirm
            safe receipt as soon as the data arrives.
            The sender responsible for sending the data is also responsible for
            confirming the data has arrived safely.</p>
          </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="hand-delivery-and-collection">
          <title>Hand Delivery and Collection</title>
          <body>
            <p>Hand delivery or collection of data
              <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymay"/> be used where
              removable media is used.
              When arranging for an individual to collect information,
              the identity of the individual <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/>
              be established,
              to confirm who they claim to be.
              An appropriate form of identification
              <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/>
              be provided before handing over any documentation.</p>
          </body>
        </topic>
      </topic>
      <topic id="telephone-or-mobile-phone">
        <title>Telephone or Mobile Phone</title>
        <body>
          <p>Phone calls might be monitored,
            overheard,
            or intercepted.
            This might happen deliberately or accidentally.
            Take care to protect calls,
            as follows:
          <ul>
            <li>Transferred information <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/>
            be kept to a minimum.</li>
            <li>Personal or Confidential information
              <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymustnot"/> be transferred
              over the telephone,
              unless the identity and authorisation of the receiver has been
              appropriately confirmed.</li>
          </ul></p>
        </body>
      </topic>
      <topic id="residual-risks-with-encrypted-data-transfer">
        <title>Residual risks with encrypted data transfer</title>
        <body>
          <p>All users <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/>
          recognise that even if a system uses encrypted data transfer,
          there are still occasions where data might be affected by
          unauthorised access.
          Be aware of these residual risks.
          Line Managers <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/>
          include consideration of these risks in employee awareness training.
          Examples include:
          <ul>
            <li>Some data relating to the communication might still be exposed
              in an unencrypted form.
            An example is metadata.</li>
            <li>Data transfer processes that rely on public-key infrastructure
              <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> implement strict
              certificate checking to maintain trust in end-points.</li>
          </ul></p>
        </body>
      </topic>
      <!-- FIXME
      <topic id="related-guides">
        <title>Related guides</title>
          <p>Need to insert link to Tee's file sharing document (MOJ Secure File Transfer Procedure v2.6.docx)
    Need link to relevant policy document</p>
  </topic>
-->
  <topic id="incidents-and-contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#incidents-and-contact-details"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html epub" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
