<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="security-breach-guidance">
  <title>Security breach guidance</title>
  <body>
      <p>This document provides an overview of the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> Security Breach guidance, which applies across the entire estate, including <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> agencies and other related offices.</p>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> takes its responsibilities for security seriously.
          All <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> employees,
          including contractors and agency staff,
          have a duty to comply with <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> security policies.
          These policies exist to:
          <ul>
              <li>Protect employees, visitors and service users from injury or harm.</li>
              <li>Protect <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> assets from loss or damage.</li>
              <li>Enable the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> to maintain business continuity and public
                  confidence.</li>
          </ul></p>
      <p>A security breach is defined as any violation of these responsibilities.
          This includes a range of behaviour,
          such as:
          <ul>
              <li>Failing to wear security access passes in pass controlled buildings.</li>
              <li>Failing to comply with clear desk policies.</li>
              <li>Failing to protect sensitive information or assets.</li>
              <li>Passing on sensitive data to third parties without the proper authority.</li>
          </ul>
          <note>This list is not comprehensive.</note></p>
      <p>Such behaviour constitutes a form of misconduct that <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policycan"/> then result
          in disciplinary action being taken against an employee,
          in accordance with <xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/documents/2015/04/discipline-policy-and-guidance.pdf" format="pdf" scope="external"><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Disciplinary Policy</xref>.
          Failure of a contractor to comply <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymight"/> lead to the cancellation of
          a contract.
          In certain circumstances,
          legal action <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymight"/> also be taken.</p>
  </body>
    <topic id="scope">
        <title>Scope</title>
        <body>
            <p>Each agency and business area within the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> is responsible for developing arrangements to comply with the principles of this guidance.</p>
        </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="principles">
        <title>Principles</title>
        <body>
            <ol>
                <li>All employees,
                    including contractors and agency staff,
                    and also including interims, secondees, fixed term contractors, and temporary staff from third party providers,
                    <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> observe security policies.
                    This includes adherence to the requirements of the Official Secrets Act, the <xref href="https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/civil-service-code/the-civil-service-code" format="html" scope="external">Civil Service Code</xref>, <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <ph platform="github"><xref href="cyber-and-technical-security-guidance.dita" format="dita" platform="html">security</xref><xref href="https://security-guidance.service.justice.gov.uk/" format="html" platform="epub pdf" scope="external">security</xref></ph><ph platform="intranet"><xref href="https://security-guidance.service.justice.gov.uk/" format="html" scope="external">security</xref></ph> and <xref href="information-classification-handling-and-security-guide.dita" format="dita" platform="html">IT</xref><xref href="https://security-guidance.service.justice.gov.uk/information-classification-handling-and-security-guide/" format="html" platform="epub pdf" scope="external">IT</xref> policies, and any local or agency level security instructions.</li>
                <li>Across the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> estate,
                    there <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be arrangements in place to ensure the
                    effective identification and investigation of security breaches,
                    whether committed by employees or other persons.
                    These <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be recorded centrally as security incidents to
                    ensure trends are identified,
                    and if necessary analysed to ensure adequacy of controls.</li>
                <li>Each organisation across the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> estate
                    <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> publish specific guidance to ensure its managers
                    and all employees clearly understand that a breach of their security responsibilities
                    <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> constitute a form of misconduct.
                    The guidance <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> define whether the breach constitutes a
                    minor,
                    a serious,
                    or a gross misconduct.
                    Managers <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> then decide whether to take disciplinary
                    action according to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> (or HMPPS) policies,
                    considering the following factors:
                    <ul>
                        <li>The damage or potential damage of the breach.</li>
                        <li>Any level of intent,
                            including decisions to ignore a problem or issue,
                            or deliberately leak sensitive information.</li>
                        <li>Whether a previous warning was given to the employee.</li>
                    </ul></li>
            </ol>
        </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="roles-and-responsibilities">
        <title>Roles and Responsibilities</title>
        <body>
            <p>Everyone has a role to play in ensuring that we work in a safe and secure environment,
                and that the data and other sensitive assets we manage are correctly protected.
                Security procedures <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> apply equally to all who work in the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>,
                including ministers,
                special advisors,
                permanent secretaries,
                judicial officers,
                contractors,
                and other staff.</p>
        </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="security-breaches-and-the-discipline-policy">
        <title>Security breaches and the discipline policy</title>
        <body>
            <p>The <xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/documents/2015/04/discipline-policy-and-guidance.pdf" format="pdf" scope="external">disciplinary policy</xref> exists to maintain good working practices and standards of conduct throughout the
                <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.
                Its principal objective is to encourage improvements in personal conduct rather than to impose penalties
                on individuals.
                This policy applies to all employees,
                although those on probation <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> have disciplinary matters
                dealt with under the probation policy.</p>
            <p>Security breaches resulting from an infringement of the security policy
                <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policycan"/> lead to the issue of a breach notice.
                Subject to the circumstances, issuing a breach notice <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymight"/>
                then initiate the commencement of disciplinary procedures.
                To assist managers,
                some examples of security breaches and the level of significance follow.
                This list is not exhaustive,
                and is for general guidance only.
                Each case <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> be judged according to the level of
                misconduct,
                particularly where the behavior is repeated or considered to be deliberate.
                Advice on when it is appropriate to use the <xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/documents/2015/04/discipline-policy-and-guidance.pdf" format="pdf" scope="external"><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Disciplinary Policy</xref> can be obtained by contacting the
                <xref href="mailto:Moj-hr-enquiries@gov.sscl.com" format="html" scope="external">Human Resources
                    Directorate</xref>.</p>
        </body>
        <topic id="minor-misconduct">
            <title>Minor misconduct</title>
            <body>
                <ul>
                    <li>Loss of a building pass, ID card or other security card.</li>
                    <li>Failure to wear security passes in pass-controlled buildings.</li>
                    <li>Not locking workstations when away from desks.</li>
                    <li>Failure of security cleared personnel to inform managers of a change in personal circumstances,
                        for example marriage,
                        change of address,
                        or divorce.</li>
                </ul>
            </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="serious-misconduct">
            <title>Serious misconduct</title>
            <body>
                <ul>
                    <li>Misuse of building or security passes,
                        including 'borrowing' or 'lending' passes to others,
                        particularly Palace of Westminster passes or those that gain access to sensitive areas.
                    <note>Some <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> staff have Palace of Westminster passes in order to perform their Private Office or Policy roles.</note></li>
                    <li>Unauthorised password or account sharing.</li>
                    <li>Failure to secure documents classified at <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/official"/> level.</li>
                    <li>Negligence leading to the loss of classified documents or assets at <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/official"/> level.</li>
                    <li>Non-compliance leading to the loss or unauthorised release of significant amounts of personal data.</li>
                    <li>Failure to lock security cabinets.</li>
                    <li>Negligence leading to the loss of portable assets,
                        including laptops,
                        mobile telephones,
                        and similar valuable transportable property.</li>
                    <li>Taking IT or communications equipment out of the UK without the appropriate level of authority.</li>
                    <li>Misuse of assets or sensitive information (see also <xref href="#gross-misconduct" format="dita">Gross Misconduct</xref>).</li>
                    <li>Failure of security cleared personnel to inform managers of a significant change in personal
                        circumstances,
                        for example
                        civil proceedings,
                        an arrest,
                        or criminal conviction,
                        including an arrest or criminal conviction of a partner or other close relative.</li>
                </ul>
            </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="gross-misconduct">
            <title>Gross misconduct</title>
            <body>
                <ul>
                    <li>Unauthorised disclosure of classified material to third parties.</li>
                    <li>Negligence and non-compliance leading to breach of security related to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/secret"/>,
                        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/topsecret"/> and <codeph>STRAP</codeph> material.</li>
                    <li>Any criminal act,
                        including fraud,
                        theft,
                        or assault.</li>
                    <li>Serious breaches of web browsing and IT or electronic communications policy.</li>
                </ul>
            </body>
        </topic>
    </topic>
    <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/contact-details"><title/></topic>
    <topic id="feedback" platform="html" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
