<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="secure-email-transfer-guide">
  <title>Secure Email Transfer Guide</title>
  <body/>
  <topic id="introduction">
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <body>
      <p>This guide provides technical users with information about the services
        and encryption tools for transferring information securely using email.
        Ensure that email communication is sufficiently secured before
        transferring sensitive information.
        Examples of sensitive information include:
      <ul>
        <li><codeph>OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE</codeph> classified information such as personal data.</li>
        <li>API and other application keys or credentials,
          including within containers.</li>
        <li>SSH keys.</li>
        <li>Database and other system-to-system passwords.</li>
        <li>Private certificates for secure communication,
          transmitting,
          or receiving data using protocols such as TLS or SSL.</li>
        <li>Private encryption keys.</li>
        <li>RSA and other single-use password information.</li>
      </ul></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="transport-layer-security">
    <title>Transport Layer Security</title>
    <body>
      <p>Ensure that any service capable of sending and receiving email uses
        enforced TLS to encrypt messages:
      <ul>
        <li>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/>
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> always use the latest
        version of TLS.</li>
        <li>TLS <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> always be used
        when sending to <codeph>gov.uk</codeph> domains.</li>
        <li>Any <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> domains that do not
        support TLS <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be documented
        in an exceptions list,
        and an exception rule authorised by the DNS provider.
        Refer to the <xref href="email-authentication-guide.dita" format="dita">Email
        Authentication Guide</xref> for DNS provider contact details.</li>
        <li>Where mandatory TLS encryption is not suitable:
          <ul>
            <li>Use certificates from Certificate Authorities,
              making sure they are always valid and use strong encryption,
              algorithms,
              and key lengths.</li>
            <li>Use <xref href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S/MIME"
              format="html" scope="external">Secure Multipurpose Internet Mail
              Extension (S/MIME)</xref>,
              as it signs and encrypts email data before it is transmitted.</li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>If you operate an internet-facing email service,
          you <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> buy and manage
          appropriate TLS certificates from the
          <xref href="https://www.digitalmarketplace.service.gov.uk/"
            format="html" scope="external">Digital Marketplace</xref>.</li>
      </ul></p>
      <p>The <xref href="information-classification-handling-and-security-guide.dita"
        format="dita">Information Classification Handling and Security Guide</xref>
        offers further advice on encrypting email communications.
        This includes protecting data at rest,
        and data in transit.</p>
      <p audience="audience-tech">For further guidance on TLS,
        see the <xref href="cryptography.dita" format="dita">Cryptography</xref>
        guidance.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="end-to-end-encryption">
    <title>End-to-end encryption</title>
    <body>
      <p>End-to-end email encryption ensures that only the sender and intended
        receiver can read email messages.
        Data is encrypted on the sender's system.
        Only the intended recipient is able to decrypt and read it.
        Many but not all email tools support end-to-end encryption for email
        communications.
        You might need to implement transit encryption for your users with a
        third party app that provides end-to-end encryption.
        Contact the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ostemailtext"/> for advice.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="secure-email-transfer-options">
    <title>Secure email transfer options</title>
    <body>
      <p>Select the most suitable system for service users,
        and configure it appropriately.
        This section provides guidance on the various options available.
      <note>Remember that only <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> email systems
        may be used for business purposes.
      Personal email accounts <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshallnot"/> for business purposes.</note></p>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Secure Messaging Options</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Examples</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Cloud Email Solutions (securing to the
                Government Secure Standard)</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Microsoft Office 365
                (<codeph>@justice.gov.uk</codeph>) or
                <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/gsuite"/>
                (<codeph>@digital.justice.gov.uk</codeph>)</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Supplementary Email Solutions</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">CJSM</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="cloud-email-solutions">
    <title>Cloud email solutions</title>
    <body>
      <p>These are tools that are configured to the
        <xref href="https://www.gov.uk/guidance/securing-government-email"
          format="html" scope="external">Government secure standard</xref>.
          When evaluating a tool,
          ensure that it provides assurance of compliance to the Government
          standard,
          and provides confidence for the secure exchange of information.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="google-mail">
    <title>Google mail</title>
    <body>
      <p>Google mail is part of the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/gsuite"/>
      service.
      It uses Transport Layer Security (TLS) to encrypt incoming and outgoing
      emails automatically.
      However,
      the email providers of both the sender and the recipient must always use
      TLS,
      otherwise the email transfer cannot be assured as secure.
      If required,
      S/MIME encryption might be suitable.
      To get help with this,
      contact the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ostemailtext"/>.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="office-365">
    <title>Office 365</title>
    <body>
      <p>By default,
        all emails in Office 365 are sent using Opportunistic TLS.
        If a TLS connection cannot be established,
        the message is sent in plain text using Simple Mail Transfer Protocol
        (SMTP).
        If TLS must be applied,
        contact the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ostemailtext"/> for help.
        In this configuration,
        certificate verification is required whenever mail is sent from a third
        party to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</p>
      <p>Outlook supports two other encryption options:
      <ul>
        <li>S/MIME encryption:
          to use S/MIME encryption,
          the sender and recipient must have a mail application that supports
          the S/MIME standard.
          Outlook supports the S/MIME standard.</li>
        <li>Office 365 Message Encryption (Information Rights Management):
          to use Office 365 Message Encryption,
          the sender must have Office 365 Message Encryption configured.</li>
      </ul></p>
      <p>Microsoft currently provides additional tools to
        <xref href="https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/blog/2018/04/05/defend-yourself-from-cybercrime-with-new-office-365-capabilities/"
          format="html" scope="external">secure information via email</xref>.</p>
      <p>If either of these additional encryption methods is required,
        please contact the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ostemailtext"/>.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="criminal-justice-secure-mail">
    <title>Criminal Justice Secure Mail</title>
    <body>
      <p>Criminal Justice Secure Mail (CJSM) provides a closed email service
        between Criminal Justice Agencies (CJAs),
        and Criminal Justice Practitioners (CJPs).
        CJSM <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymustnot"/> be used from
        public or personal computers.
        CJSM <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> be used only for
        legitimate business purposes relating to the Criminal Justice System.</p>
      <p>Examples of CJAs within the GSC are:
      <ul>
        <li>Police</li>
        <li>Prison Service</li>
        <li>Court Service</li>
        <li>CPS</li>
        <li>Probation</li>
      </ul></p>
      <p>Examples of agencies or CJPs outside the GSC are:
      <ul>
        <li>Youth Offending Teams</li>
        <li>Victim Support</li>
        <li>Solicitors and Barristers.</li>
      </ul></p>
      <p>The CJSM offers two mechanisms for connection:
      <ul>
        <li>A CJSM mailbox (webmail) hosts a mailbox on behalf of the user.
          A user accesses the mailbox using either a standard internet browser,
          or a POP3 email client.</li>
        <li>A CJSM server connection (SMTP) is deployed to act as an encryption
          proxy for any email traffic containing a destination address ending
          in <codeph>cjsm.net</codeph>.
          All CJSM servers require a certificate to be installed.
          The certificate is issued by Egress.
          Session keys are established for each transaction.</li>
      </ul></p>
      <p>All <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> users can send or receive
      over CJSM by adding <codeph>.CJSM.net</codeph> to the end of their
      <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> email address.</p>
      <p>CJSM <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> only be used to
      share information up to and including <codeph>OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE</codeph>.</p>
      <p>CJSM <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshallnot"/> be used with
      multi-client mail relay services such as Mailgun,
      Mailchimp,
      or AWS SES.</p>
      <p>For further guidance contact the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/cjsmemailtext"/>.
      Alternatively,
      further information is available at: <xref
      href="https://www.cjsm.justice.gov.uk/training/index.html" format="html"
      scope="external">https://www.cjsm.justice.gov.uk/training/index.html</xref>.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="external-emails">
    <title>External emails</title>
    <body>
      <p>Ensure that all outgoing emails are automatically appended with a
        disclaimer.</p>
      <p>If you are exchanging email with an outside organisation with which the
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshallnot"/> could be bound contractually,
        the following text must be appended:
        <lq>I am not authorised to bind the Ministry of Justice contractually,
          nor to make representations or other statements which may bind the
          Ministry of Justice in any way via electronic means.</lq></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="auto-forward">
    <title>Auto-forward</title>
    <body>
      <p>Ensure that auto-forwarding is used responsibly,
        and in line with the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s
        <xref href="information-classification-handling-and-security-guide.dita"
          format="dita">Information Classification Handling and Security
          Guide</xref>.
          In particular:
      <ul>
        <li>Disable auto-forward to external domains.
          If auto-forwarding to an external domain is required,
          it <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> be controlled by
          creating custom Role Based Access Control (RBAC) roles.</li>
        <li>Advise users to only forward emails from an
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> email address to an email
          address that provides the same or higher security standards.</li>
        <li>Do not provide auto-forward capability when any
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> standard,
          policy,
          or guidance states that additional controls or protection
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be implemented before
          sending an email.</li>
      </ul></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#contact-details"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html epub" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
