<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?path2rootmap-uri ./?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="shared-responsibility-models">
  <title>Shared Responsibility Models</title>
  <body>
    <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> by default will leverage shared responsibility models, particularly in commodity environments, in order to achieve efficiencies such as time, risk and cost.</p>
    <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> believes that it should focus on elements which are unique to its requirements rather than attempting to solve commodity requirements in a unique way.</p>
    <p>h/t <xref href="https://aws.amazon.com/compliance/shared-responsibility-model/" format="html" scope="external">https://aws.amazon.com/compliance/shared-responsibility-model/</xref></p>
  </body>
  <topic id="assessments">
    <title>Assessments</title>
    <body>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> conducts assessments (including risk assessments) where appropriate to ensure it understands the shared responsibility model, its obligations under the same and measure how third-parties are meeting their obligations.</p>
    </body>
    <topic id="inherited">
      <title>Inherited</title>
      <body>
        <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> inherits controls which are fully controlled and managed by a third-party, such as physical and environmental controls in a data centre.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="shared">
      <title>Shared</title>
      <body>
        <p><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> has shared controls which is jointly responsible for with the third-party, for example:</p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p>Patch Management - AWS is responsible for patching and fixing flaws within the infrastructure, but customers are responsible for patching their guest OS and applications.</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Configuration Management - AWS maintains the configuration of its infrastructure devices, but a customer is responsible for configuring their own guest operating systems, databases, and applications.</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Awareness &amp; Training - AWS trains AWS employees, but a customer must train their own employees.</p>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="moj-specific">
      <title><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> specific</title>
      <body>
        <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> is responsible for appropriate use within its partnership or 'tenancy' of a third-party supplier or product.</p>
        <p>For example, in AWS, <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> must correctly leverage native AWS functionality (such as Security Groups) to protect systems/data, and only the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> can implement these.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
</topic>
