<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="source-code-publishing">
  <title>Source code publishing</title>
  <body>
    <p>
      <b>This guidance applies to all staff and contractors who work for the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/>.
        In particular,
        it applies to product owners,
        technical architects,
        security architects,
        and developers.</b>
    </p>
    <p><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> policy about making source code developed by the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> available complies with <xref href="https://www.gov.uk/service-manual/service-standard" format="html" scope="external">UK Government guidance</xref>.</p>
    <p>By default,
      <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> developers <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> develop source code
      in a way that means it can be stored and published in the open.
      There are exceptions,
      for example sensitive material such as encryption keys.</p>
    <p>This document is not about the use of existing open source materials.</p>
  </body>
  <topic id="reasons-for-working-in-the-open-and-sharing-source-code-by-default">
    <title>Reasons for working in the open and sharing source code by default</title>
    <body>
      <p><xref href="https://www.gov.uk/service-manual/service-standard#criterion-8" format="html" scope="external">Point 8</xref> of the
        <q>Digital by Default</q> Service Standard states that you should:
      <lq>Make all new source code open and reusable,
        and publish it under appropriate licences
        (or provide a convincing explanation as to why this cannot be done for specific subsets of the source code).</lq></p>
      <p>This includes <q><xref href="https://www.gov.uk/service-manual/technology/making-source-code-open-and-reusable" format="html" scope="external">Making source code open and reusable</xref></q>.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="when-you-should-not-publish-materials-in-the-open">
    <title>When you should not publish materials in the open</title>
    <body>
      <p>There are some circumstances when materials should not be public.</p>
      <p>Obvious examples include security or encryption keys or credentials,
        and configuration details.
        Other examples include:
      <ul>
        <li>Algorithms used to detect fraud.</li>
        <li>Materials that relate to unreleased policy.</li>
        <li>API keys for cloud-hosted applications or environments, for example AWS.</li>
      </ul></p>
      <p>An important exception is for materials developed by third parties.
        They might have retained ownership of the Intellectual Property (IP).</p>
      <p>More guidance to help you decide when to publish materials in the open or not is available
        <xref href="https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/open-source-guidance/when-code-should-be-open-or-closed" format="html" scope="external">here</xref>.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/contact-details"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html epub" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
