<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="spam-and-phishing-guide">
  <title>Spam and Phishing Guide</title>
  <body>
    <p>This guide outlines the technical implementations that technical users
      should make to keep
      <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> systems secure.</p>
  </body>
  <topic id="common-email-threats">
    <title>Common email threats</title>
    <body/>
    <topic id="spam-and-phishing">
      <title>Spam and phishing</title>
      <body>
        <p>To protect against spam and phishing attacks,
          the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> makes use of Government
          services such as National Cyber Security Centre's Suspicious Email Reporting Service and any
            other services that are appropriate.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="spoofing-attacks">
      <title>Spoofing attacks</title>
      <body>
        <p>To mitigate spoofing attacks,
          use techniques such as:
        <ul>
          <li>Implementing <xref href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sender_Policy_Framework"
            scope="external" format="html">Sender Policy Framework (SPF)</xref>,
            <xref href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DomainKeys_Identified_Mail"
              scope="external" format="html">Domain Keys Identified Mail (DKIM)</xref>,
              and <xref href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DMARC" scope="external"
                format="html">Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting and
                Conformance (DMARC)</xref>.
                Any sender information details such as <codeph>from</codeph>,
                <codeph>reply-to</codeph>,
                <codeph>return-path</codeph>,
                or even <codeph>x-origin</codeph> can be spoofed.
                For further guidance refer to the
                <xref href="email-authentication-guide.dita" format="dita">Email
                  Authentication Guide</xref>.</li>
          <li>Using secure email gateways.</li>
          <li>Implementing access controls,
            such as <xref href="multi-factor-authentication-mfa-guide.dita"
            format="dita">Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)</xref>,
            to avoid an attacker gaining access to credentials for an email
            account where they could plausibly spoof the sender's email
            address.</li>
        </ul></p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="protecting-a-parked-domain">
    <title>Protecting a parked domain</title>
    <body>
      <p>DMARC <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> also be
      implemented on non-email sending domains.
      This is because the domains might be used for email spoofing and
      phishing.</p>
      <p>Once parked domains are protected,
        configure them to renew automatically by default.</p>
      <p>If you are a domain owner,
        to protect a parked domain follow these steps:
        <ol>
          <li>Create an SPF record with no permitted senders.
            This means that no IP address is authorised to send email for the
            parked domain.</li>
          <li>Include an <codeph>RUA</codeph> address.
          Aggregate reports can be sent to this address.
          The reports provide visibility of potential abuse.</li>
          <li>If you have an <codeph>A</codeph> record on your domain,
          but no <codeph>MX</codeph> records,
          create a "null" <codeph>MX</codeph> record that immediately fails
          any email to the parked domain.
          Give the <codeph>MX</codeph> record the highest priority
          (<codeph>0</codeph>).</li>
        </ol>
      </p>
      <p>A "null" DKIM record is not required.
      This is because email will be treated the same as if it had no record at
      all.
      However,
      recipients might treat a "null" DKIM record with extra caution,
      as it explicitly revokes any keys that might be cached.</p>
      <p>Some interfaces might not allow you to implement all these steps.
        Implement as many as possible.</p>
    </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="compromised-email-systems">
      <title>Compromised email systems</title>
      <body>
        <p>Compromised email systems are often used to send spam messages and
          conduct phishing campaigns.
          Protect email systems by using
          <xref href="multi-factor-authentication-mfa-guide.dita"
            format="dita">MFA</xref> where possible,
            to mitigate the risk.</p>
        <p>Report any account takeovers or email compromise
          <xref href="reporting-an-incident.dita" format="dita">as an
            incident</xref>.</p>
        <p conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/incidentmanager" audience="audience-suppliers audience-tech"/>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="accidental-disclosure">
      <title>Accidental disclosure</title>
      <body>
        <p>Not all security threats are intentional.
          Authorised users might accidentally send proprietary information to
          unintended recipients using email.
          Report these
          <xref href="reporting-an-incident.dita" format="dita">as an
          incident</xref>.</p>
          <p conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/incidentmanager" audience="audience-suppliers audience-tech"/>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="man-in-the-middle-attacks">
      <title>Man-in-the-Middle attacks</title>
      <body>
        <p>Man-in-the-Middle (MITM) attacks might result in unauthorised access
          to email whilst the message is in transit.
          These attacks are used to gain access to sensitive information.</p>
        <p>Mitigate MITM attacks by:
        <ul>
          <li>Configuring <xref href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S/MIME"
            format="html" scope="external">Secure Multipurpose Internet Mail
            Extension (S/MIME)</xref> to encrypt emails and provide unique
            digital certificates.</li>
          <li>Implementing certificate based authentication for all end user
            machines and devices,
            for example printers with email services enabled.</li>
          <li>Using TLS certificates which use the HTTPS protocol to provide a
            secure connection between the
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> and third parties when using
            webmail portals.</li>
          <li>Using SMTPS (SMTP encrypted with TLS) rather than unencrypted SMTP.</li>
        </ul></p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  <topic id="mail-check">
    <title>Mail Check</title>
    <body>
      <p><xref href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/information/mailcheck"
        format="html" scope="external">Mail Check</xref> is an NCSC cyber
        defence service.
        It enables email administrators to improve and maintain the security of
        email domains by preventing spoofing attacks.
        All domains operated by,
        or on behalf of,
        the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>,
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be added to Mail Check,
        regardless of whether the domain is expected to send or receive emails.
        All future contracts and agreements with third party suppliers
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> make this a requirement.</p>
      <p>Mail Check <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> be used
      only if the email domain name provided is publicly routable from the
      Internet using the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP).</p>
      <p>To add domains to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s Mail
      Check service subscription,
      contact the NCSC Mail Check team via <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/securityemailtext"/>.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="email-sandboxing">
    <title>Email sandboxing</title>
    <body>
      <p>Sandboxing provides an additional layer of protection.
        Any email that contains URLs,
        attachments,
        or suspicious senders can be securely checked for malicious content
        before they reach the network or mail server.
        If the email is found to be harmful,
        it is not sent further.
        Sandboxing is beneficial,
        because it:
      <ul>
        <li>Mirrors the end user's computer,
          and provides a secure space to interact with and analyse potentially
          harmful communications.</li>
        <li>Allows developers and technical architects to be proactive in
          minimising the effect of a threat.</li>
      </ul></p>
      <p>For further guidance on implementing sandboxing,
        including which products you might use,
        contact the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/securityemailtext"/>.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="url-link-rewriting">
    <title>URL link rewriting</title>
    <body>
      <p>URL link rewriting is a technique used to detect malicious links in
        emails.
        Links in emails are actively scanned.
        They are then rewritten to point to an Advanced Threat Protection
        gateway,
        where two checks occur:
      <ol>
        <li>Determine if the link is deny-listed by the
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> or has been previously
          identified as malicious.</li>
        <li>Scan downloadable content available at the link address.</li>
      </ol></p>
      <p>After the checks have completed,
        the user continues to the URL or is blocked from access,
        depending on the results of the checks.
        If access is blocked,
        URL rewriting is used to provide an explanation and contact details for
        additional help.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="protecting-against-email-security-threats">
    <title>Protecting against email security threats</title>
    <body>
      <p>To provide protection against email security threats,
        implement the following controls:
      <ul>
        <li>Implement anti-malware software.
          Refer to the <xref href="malware-protection-guide-introduction.dita"
          format="dita">Malware Protection Guidance</xref> for more information.</li>
        <li>Install only the minimal mail server services required.
          Eliminate known vulnerabilities through patches,
          configuration,
          and upgrades.
          Refer to the <xref
          href="vulnerability-scanning-and-patch-management-guide.dita"
          format="dita">Vulnerability Scanning and Patch Management Guide</xref>
          for more information.</li>
        <li>Implement external email warning messages to insert text (usually in
          the subject line) into an email when it is identified as coming from
          outside of the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</li>
        <li>Develop email security management plans to define best practices for
          employees.</li>
        <li>Use SMTP alert policies to track malware activity and data loss
          incidents from anti-malware software.</li>
        <li>Ensure there is no unnecessary detail on the
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> website or webmail,
          by considering what visitors need to know with the aim of reducing the
          threat of spear phishing.</li>
        <li>Restrict auto-forwarding.
          Refer to the <xref href="secure-email-transfer-guide.dita"
          format="dita">Secure Email Transfer Guide</xref> for more information.</li>
        <li>Restrict delegate access.
          Refer to the <xref href="email-security-guide.dita"
          format="dita">Email Security Guide</xref> for more information.</li>
      </ul></p>
      <note conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/noteexternalemail"/>
      <p>The <xref href="email-authentication-guide.dita" format="dita">Email Authentication Guide</xref>
        provides further detail on the email authentication controls mentioned in this guide.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="reporting-spam-or-malicious-emails">
    <title>Reporting spam or malicious emails</title>
    <body>
      <p>If you think your email service provision has been susceptible to spam or a virus,
        report it immediately to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/servicedesk"/> on <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/servicedesknumber"/> as an IT security incident.
        Please refer to the <xref href="it-security-incident-management-policy.dita" format="dita">Security Incident Management Policy</xref> for further guidance.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="incidents" conref="conrefs.dita#incidents"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#contact-details"><title/></topic>
  
</topic>
