<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="strategic-information-security-policy">
  <title>Strategic Information Security Policy</title>
  <body>
    <p>This strategic information security policy sets out the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> approach to information security. The policy, and the surrounding Information Security Framework exist to support the department's aims by ensuring the appropriate protection of our IT systems against accidental or malicious breaches.</p>
    <p>The policy sets out a risk-based approach to information security, ensuring we have the right people, process and technology controls to address the realistic threats the department faces.</p>
  </body>
<topic id="purpose">
    <title>Purpose</title>
    <body>
        <p>This document sets out the overarching security context in which the department operates and the accountability for security across the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</p>
        <p><xref href="https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/government-functional-standard-govs-007-security">The Government Functional Standard 007: Security</xref> sets out that the Prime Minister (PM) is ultimately responsible for the security of His Majesty's Government (HMG). The PM delegates accountability to the Cabinet Secretary, who in turn delegates accountability to Accounting Officers and Permanent Secretaries. </p>
    </body>
</topic>
<topic id="scope">
    <title>Scope</title>
    <body>
        <p>This policy sets the context for the information security policies and standardsy sets that are used across the MoJ. It applies to all staff, contractors and third parties who provide services for or on behalf of the department.</p>
    </body>
</topic>
<topic id="aims-and-objectives">
    <title>Aims and Objectives</title>
    <body>
        <p>This policy sets out the formal senior management commitment to information security across the MoJ. This ensures that information is processed in a manner that preserves the confidentiality of information and meets all of the security requirements and obligations set out under legislation, regulations, and commercial contracts.</p>
    </body>
</topic>
<topic id="responsibilities">
    <title>Responsibilities</title>
    <body>
        <p>In line with the Government Functional security standard (GovS007), MoJ has a Board member with the security remit (Director General-Chief Operating Officer (DG-COO), James McEwen) and a MoJ senior officer accountable for security (Chief Security Officer, Amie Alekna). Cyber security also forms part of the ministerial portfolio of Minister Argar.</p>
        <p>All MoJ Executive Agencies and Arm's Length Bodies (ALBs) with their own Accounting Officers (accountable to the MoJ's Principal Accounting Officer) also appoint their own board members with responsibility for Information Security. Details of these are in Annex A.</p>
    </body>
</topic>
<topic id="information-security-framework">
    <title>Information Security Framework</title>
    <body>
        <p>The department's information security is managed via:</p>
        <p>    
            <ol>
            <li>This strategic policy,</li>
            <li>Associated informtion security policies related to specific topics.</li>
            <li>Standards and procedures accompanied by supporting governance arrangements.</li>
            <li>Guidance that helps interpret the above in different circumstances.</li>
            <li>System and process-specific security policies and guidance.</li>
            </ol>
        </p>
        <p>MoJ-wide security policies are all outcome-focussed and avoid being specific to allow a range of methods to be used to achieve them, tailored to local circumstances. This permits agencies and teams within the department flexibility and autonomy in interpreting them given their particular operations.</p>
        <p>The policies and standards should be treated as the minimum baseline that areas need to achieve. In many circumstances, additional controls may be required to meet specific regulations or contractual obligations, or to counter particular threats.</p>
    </body>
</topic>
<topic id="policy-statement">
    <title>Policy Statement</title>
    <body>
        <p>The MoJ is entrusted with vast quantities of private and sensitive information relating to the operation of the justice system. The department recognises that it is vital that all such information must be properly protected from compromise of its confidentiality, integrity or availability.</p>
        <p>Everyone within the scope of this policy must ensure that:</p>
        <p>
            <ul>
            <li>Data is properly identified, classified and protected in accordance with the MoJ's security policies and standards. All data must be properly protected with security controls proportionate to the risk to that data. All information assets have a responsible owner, the Information Asset Owner, whose responsibilities are defined in [xxxx].</li>
            <li>All technology services are protected through security controls as detailed in the relevant MoJ standards.</li>
            <li>Information security incidents and 'near misses' are quickly identified, managed effectively to minimise harm, and lessons are learned from them to reduce future problems. This is undertaken in accordance with the [Incident Management AUP].</li>
            <li>When the MoJ uses service providers or other partners who have access to departmental information, the Senior Responsible Officer (SRO) must ensure that an appropriate security risk assessment is undertaken to ensure the supplier or partner complies with relevant departmental security policies, and any deviations are understood in terms of risk.</li>
            <li>Where security risks are identified, the SRO ensures effective and proportionate security controls are in place manage these risks.</li>
            <li>Information back-up and disaster recover/business continuity plans are in-place and tested in accordance with the MoJ’s [business continuity / disaster recovery standard] to ensure destructive or disruptive security events cause minimal interruption to operations.</li>
            <li>All MoJ staff and users within scope of this policy will:
                <ul>
                <li>complete regular information security training</li>
                <li>undertake role-specific security training as required</li>
                <li>take all reasonable steps to keep the department's information protected against unauthorised or accidental disclosure</li>
                <li>seek help if they are unsure how to implement any aspect of the MoJ security policies or guidance.</li>
                </ul></li>
            </ul>
        </p>
    </body>
</topic>
<topic id="compliance">
    <title>Compliance</title>
    <body>
        <p>The Security and Information Group (SIG) will regularly review this policy and associated framework documents to ensure they remain suitable. Routine compliance activities - such as reviews of security controls - will be undertaken by SIG against this policy and the Information Security Framework.  </p>
        <p>Where requirements in this policy and the framework have not been met and no formal risk has been escalated and accepted in line with the policy, individuals may be subject to disciplinary processes as per <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> HR Policy.</p>
    </body>
</topic>
<topic id="keeping-control">
    <title>Keeping Control</title>
    <body>
        <p>In case of any doubts or concerns, please notify your line manager and the Information Assurance Lead for your business area. All references to contact the Security Team above should be via <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/securityemail"/>.</p>
    </body>
</topic>

<topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#contact-details"><title/></topic>
<topic id="feedback" platform="html" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>