<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="supplier-corporate-it">
  <title>Supplier corporate IT</title>
  <body>
    <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> does not by default
    prohibit the use of supplier organisation corporate IT for processing
    <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> data.
    The expectation is that the supplier corporate IT environment is well
    designed,
    maintained,
    governed,
    and defended,
    in line with large scale commercial threat models.</p>
    <p>Subject to the requirements described in this document,
      the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> does not require suppliers to
      create or maintain dedicated or segregated IT solutions for processing
      <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> data classified at
      <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/official"/>.</p>
    <p>For <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> data classified at
      <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/official-sensitive"/>,
      additional comprehensive security assurance is required.
      The assurance <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> include
      controls and governance processes.
      The assurance <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be appropriate
      to the information sensitivity.
    Contact the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/securityemailtext"/> for assistance
  regarding acceptable security assurance for <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/official-sensitive"/>
  <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> data.</p>
  </body>
  <topic id="technical-security">
    <title>Technical security</title>
    <body>
      <p>Supplier corporate IT systems are expected to maintain appropriate
        levels of technical security defences.
        These defences <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
        protect appropriately all types of <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
        data.
        This includes <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> data processed or
        stored in any way by supplier corporate IT systems.</p>
      <p>Examples of appropriate defences include,
        but are not limited to:
        <ul>
          <li>Use of current Transport Layer Security or IPSec for in-transit encryption.</li>
          <li>Hashing and cryptography mechanisms for data stored at-rest.</li>
        </ul></p>
        <p>The defences <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> scale
        from individual data items in a database,
        up to entire storage facilities.</p>
      <p>Supplier systems <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be
      proportionally resilient to malware.
      This might be achieved by ensuring segregation between systems,
      users,
      and data.
      Other industry standard best practices,
      such as email attachment scanning or filtering,
    might also be suitable.</p>
    </body>
    <topic id="email-security">
      <title>Email security</title>
      <body>
        <p>Supplier corporate email systems processing
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> data
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> align to the
          <xref href="https://www.gov.uk/guidance/securing-government-email"
            format="html" scope="external">UK government secure email policy</xref>,
            thereby following widely accepted best practices.</p>
        <p>Supplier corporate email systems are not required to integrate to the
          Public Services Network (PSN).</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="data-governance">
    <title>Data Governance</title>
    <topic id="data-offshoring">
      <title>Data offshoring</title>
      <body>
        <p>Supplier's <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymay"/> process
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> data,
        including Personal Data for which the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>
        is responsible,
        outside of the United Kingdom,
        subject to the maintenance of acceptable information controls and
        governance.</p>
        <p><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> data
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshallnot"/> be processed within
        a legal framework that is incompatible with that of the United Kingdom.</p>
      </body>
      <topic id="working-overseas">
        <title>Working overseas</title>
        <body>
          <p>Supplier staff are not prohibited from working overseas while
            processing <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/official"/>
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> data,
            subject to implementing and maintaining acceptable information
            controls and governance.
          In particular,
        the controls and governance <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
        align and comply with <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> policy
        on <xref href="remote-working.dita" format="dita">remote working</xref>
        and working overseas.</p>
          <p>When working overseas,
            it might be necessary to limit access to information while the user
            travels.
            Alternatively,
            it might be appropriate to use secondary,
            temporary accounts,
            to avoid primary account compromise.
            Contact the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/securityemailtext"/> for assistance
          regarding acceptable security assurance when working overseas.</p>
        </body>
      </topic>
    </topic>
    <topic id="data-backups">
      <title>Data backups</title>
      <body>
        <p>Supplier corporate IT systems <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymay"/>
        backup data for extended retention times.
        An example would be keeping archived or deleted emails for an additional
        few months.
        Backup systems <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymay"/> also exist
        in such a way that individual backup items cannot be individually deleted,
        but instead are subject to a system-wide backup rotation or retention
        schedule.</p>
        <p>Suppliers <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> discuss and
        agree these cases with the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="local-end-user-device-data">
      <title>Local end-user device data</title>
      <body>
        <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> acknowledges that
        corporate users typically "download" files,
        for example from local email client caching to file downloads using a
        web browser.
        These files might remain within <codeph>Downloads</codeph> folders,
        until explicitly deleted by the user.</p>
        <p>Suppliers <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> include and
        address these types of data locations in data governance regimes.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
	<topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/contact-details"><title/></topic>
  
</topic>
