<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="syops-policy">
  <title><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Security Operating Procedure Policy</title>
  <body>
    <p><b>Classification:</b> OFFICIAL</p>
    <p><b>Scope:</b> All <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> IT system administrators, and third-parties responsible for <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems.</p>
    <p><b>Expiry:</b> When rescinded or replaced.</p>
    <p><b>Review:</b> Annual review from date of publication, or when required by legislative or departmental changes.</p>
    <p><b>Authors:</b> Security Policy, Awareness, Culture, and Education team (SPACE)</p>
    <p><b>Policy owner:</b> <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Information Security Team (MIST)</p>
    <p><b>Authorised by:</b> <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Chief Information Security Officer (CISO)</p>
    <p><b>Date of publication:</b> 19/12/2025</p>
    <p><b>Document version:</b> 1.0</p>
    <p>This document is the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Security Operating Procedure (SyOP) Policy. It provides guidance for system administrators responsible for creating and maintaining SyOPs for their IT system. </p>
    </body>
    <topic id="introduction">
        <title>1. Introduction</title>
        <body>
            <p><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems and services are provided to support the delivery of the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s business services. For those systems and services to operate effectively and efficiently Security Operating Procedures (SyOPs) must be created to define and document how to use each system or service in a secure way. Breaching this policy is considered a breach under the Security Breach Policy. </p>
        </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="scope">
        <title>2. Scope</title>
        <body>
            <p>This policy applies to all administrators of <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems, including <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> employees, executive agency employees, contractors, and agency staff.</p>
        </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="security-operating-procedures">
        <title>3. Security Operating Procedures (SyOPs)</title>
        <body>
            <p>To help protect <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> data and IT systems, SyOPs are provided to guide users on secure working practices for <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems and services.
                <ul>
                    <li>System administrators <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> maintain a set of SyOPs that are included as part of each IT system's security assurance. </li>
                    <li>System administrators <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> ensure that users have read and acknowledged all relevant SyOPs before granting access to an <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT system. </li>
                    <li>System administrators <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> keep records of users that are granted access to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT systems and <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> make records available during assurance or upon authorised request.</li>
                    <li>System administrators <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> seek approval through an assured change control process before updating a SyOP for any <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> IT system.</li>
                    <li>System administrators <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> review user requests to contravene, disregard, or take any action that differs from the system SyOP.</li>
                    <li>System administrators <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> track any exemptions from a SyOP using a risk management process.</li>
                    <li>System administrators <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> ensure that all relevant legal and regulatory requirements are contained in any SyOP they are responsible for.</li>
                </ul>
            </p>
        </body>
    </topic>
  <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#contact-details"><title/></topic>
</topic>