<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="system-administrators-policy">
  <title>System administrators policy</title>
  <body>
    <p>This document is intended to help System Administrators use and access
      <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> systems in a safe and secure manner.</p>
    <p>To help identify formal policy statements,
      each is prefixed with an identifier of the form:
      <codeph>POLSYADxxx</codeph>,
      where xxx is a unique ID number.</p>
  </body>
  <topic id="overview">
    <title>Overview</title>
    <body>
    <p>This policy applies to all system administrators working with <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> systems.</p>
    <p>All <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> system administrators <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> follow this policy.</p>
    <p>System administrators <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> also be compliant with the System Operating Procedures (SyOps)
      that apply for a given system they administer.</p>
    <p>System Administrators <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> read this document prior to using
      an <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> system for the first time.</p>
    <p>System Administrators <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> revisit this document every six (6) months or so,
      to remind themselves of the content.
      Audits will check that the policy is being followed.</p>
    <p>System Administrators are responsible for maintaining the security of <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> systems.
      Failure to comply with this policy or the system SyOPs could lead to compromise of the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s infrastructure,
      or the services it uses or connects to.
      Failure to comply with this policy or corresponding SyOPs would be considered a breach of the <xref href="it-security-policy-overview.dita" format="dita">IT Security Policy</xref>.</p>
      <p>For any security related information or help,
        <xref href="#contact-details" format="dita">get in contact</xref>.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="physical-security-and-environmental-controls">
    <title>Physical security and environmental controls</title>
    <body>
      <ul>
        <li>Routine physical checks of server room <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be performed to identify unknown equipment and evidence of tampering.</li>
        <li>A hardware asset register <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be kept and maintained by the system administrator to assist in equipment monitoring.</li>
        <li>Any evidence of tampering <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be immediately reported to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Operational Security Team (OST): <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ostemail"/>.</li>
        <li>System administrator <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> ensure an appropriate environment to protect system hardware,
          for example through air conditioning or dust prevention sheets.</li>
        <li>Access to a server room <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be logged and monitored.</li>
        <li>If an electronic monitoring system is not in place (such as key card entry),
          then a manual log of sever room activity <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be taken.</li>
      </ul>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="identification-and-authentication">
    <title>Identification and authentication</title>
    <body>
      <ul>
        <li>Accounts <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> only be created when correct authorisation has been received.</li>
        <li>Permissions granted to accounts <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be commensurate to the account's business role.</li>
        <li>Accounts <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> be enabled only when there is confirmation that a user understands and will comply with the system SyOps.</li>
        <li>Account usage <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> be reviewed on regular intervals.</li>
        <li>If an account is dormant, the System Administrator <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> investigate its status,
          and disable the account if appropriate.</li>
        <li>When staff members leave the organisation or where the account is not required, the corresponding accounts <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be disabled.</li>
        <li>Administrator level accounts <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> only be used when carrying out administrative tasks.</li>
        <li>For all non-administrative tasks, a normal (non-privileged) User account <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be used.</li></ul>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="change-management">
    <title>Change management</title>
    <body>
      <ul>
        <li>All changes to an <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymoj"/> System <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be approved and tested prior to implementation on the live system (e.g. in a Non-Live Environment).</li>
        <li>System Administrators <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> maintain an audit log of configuration changes and ensure that changes do not affect the secure operation of the IT system.</li>
        <li>Changes <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymustnot"/> be implemented unless the corresponding Operational Change Request (OCR) has been approved by <xref href="#contact-details" format="dita">IT Security</xref>.</li>
        <li>Any change which affect the security posture or risk profile of the system
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be <xref href="#contact-details" format="dita">reported</xref>.</li></ul>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="patch-management">
    <title>Patch management</title>
    <body>
      <ul>
        <li>All system software <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be kept patched and up-to-date in accordance with the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymoj"/> <xref href="patch-management-guide.dita" format="dita">Patch Management Guide</xref>.</li>
        <li>If one exists, a security patch <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> first be tested in the non-live test environment.</li>
        <li>The system administrator <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/>:
          <ul>
            <li>Verifying the origin and authenticity of the patch.</li>
            <li>Checking the patch and its source media for viruses or malware.</li>
            <li>Confirming the base environment required to apply the patch.</li>
            <li>Finding out if there are common problems with applying the new patch of software.</li>
          </ul></li>
          <li>Un-patched system software <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be identified and reported to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> OST: <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ostemail"/>.</li>
          <li>Problems discovered in patch testing <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> be documented and reported to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymoj"/> <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/cisolong"/> and system owner.</li></ul>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="audit-and-protective-monitoring">
    <title>Audit and protective monitoring</title>
    <body>
      <ul>
          <li>Audit logs collected as part of the IT System's protective monitoring solution <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be monitored by the System Administrator.</li>
          <li>General audit checking <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> occur at regular intervals (set by the system owner).</li>
          <li>All suspicious activity <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be monitored and investigated thoroughly.</li>
          <li>System Administrators <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> ensure that audit and compliance checks do not adversely affect the business operation of the IT System.</li>
          <li>It is the System Administrator's <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> protect audit logs in accordance with the Protective Marking of the system.</li></ul>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="passwords">
    <title>Passwords</title>
    <body>
      <ul>
        <li>Administrator passwords <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be created in line with the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <xref href="password-management-guide.dita" format="dita">Password Management Guide</xref>.</li>
        <li>The password for an Administrator account <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymustnot"/> be re-used with another Administrator or Normal User account.</li></ul>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="backups">
    <title>Backups</title>
    <body>
      <ul>
        <li>System Administrators <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> follow the IT System's back up schedule and procedures.</li>
        <li>All back up media <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be assigned a Protective Marking and afforded appropriate protection based on that marking.</li>
        <li>Back-up material <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> only be accessible to those who have a need-to-know.
          Encryption might be required to maintain an acceptable level of system assurance.</li></ul>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="incident-management-and-response">
    <title>Incident management and response</title>
    <body>
      <ul>
        <li>Any incident involving a suspected or known security breach involving personnel,
          hardware,
          software,
          communications,
          document,
          or physical security <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be reported immediately to the System Administrator's System Manager,
          <b>AND</b> the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Operational Security Team (OST): <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ostemail"/>.</li>
          <li>Any loss of IT equipment,
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> or personal data <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be reported to:
            <ul>
              <li>The System Administrator's line manager.</li>
              <li>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> OST (<ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ostemail"/>).</li>
              <li>The Data Access and Compliance Unit (DACU): <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/dacuemail"/>.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>To ensure a quick response,
            all emails reporting a loss <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be marked <q>Urgent</q> <b>AND</b> have <q>Data Incident</q> in the title/subject heading.</li>
          </ul>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#contact-details"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html epub" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
