<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="technical-security-controls-guide">
  <title>Technical Security Controls Guide</title>
  <topic id="introduction">
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <body>
      <p>This guide explains the technical security controls that should be implemented on information systems developed, procured or operated by the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> or on its behalf.
      This guide aligns with <xref href="https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-53r4.pdf" format="pdf" scope="external">NIST 800-53</xref> and the NCSC <xref href="https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/collection/caf/cyber-safety-introduction" format="html" scope="external">Cyber Assessment Framework (CAF)</xref>.
      The guidance provides the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> with 3 phases or layers of defence.
      These controls must be implemented to ensure the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s network infrastructure is secure.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="who-is-this-guide-for">
    <title>Who is this guide for?</title>
    <body>
      <p>This guide has two audiences:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>The in-house <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Digital and Technology staff who are responsible for implementing controls throughout technical design, development, system integration and operation.
        This includes DevOps, Software Developers, Technical Architects and Service Owners.
        It also includes Incident Managers from the Event, Problem, Incident, CSI and Knowledge (EPICK) Team.</li>
        <li>Any other <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> business group, agency, contractor, IT supplier and partner who in any way designs, develops or supplies services (including processing, transmitting and storing data) for, or on behalf of the MoJ.</li>
      </ol>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="what-is-an-moj-system">
    <title>What is an <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> 'system'?</title>
    <body>
      <p>Within this guide, a system includes:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Hardware - laptops, desktop PCs, servers, mobile devices, network devices, and any other IT equipment.</li>
        <li>Software - such as operating system (OS) and applications (both web-based and locally installed).</li>
        <li>Services - such as remote databases or cloud-based tools like Slack.</li>
      </ul>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="related-guides">
    <title>Related guides</title>
    <body>
      <p><xref href="technical-security-controls-guide-defensive-layer-1.dita" format="dita" type="topic">Defensive Layer 1: Creating a baseline security environment</xref>
Layer 1 sets out the technical controls required to build strong network foundations, including secure configuration and software development.</p>
      <p><xref href="technical-security-controls-guide-defensive-layer-2.dita" format="dita" type="topic">Defensive Layer 2: Implementing monitoring capabilities</xref>
Layer 2 builds a monitoring capability for the network and extends existing security controls to mobile devices.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
