<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="using-1password">
  <title>Using 1Password</title>
  <topic id="what-is-1password">
    <title>What is 1Password?</title>
    <body>
      <p>1Password is an online password management tool that we make available to you to help you create, store and share passwords. Using it means you no longer need to remember dozens of passwords, just a single primary password. It keeps all your website logins protected, helps with creating new 'strong' passwords and password sharing when required.</p>
      <p>1Password is available as a browser extension for popular browsers, as well as a full software suite (for use outside of browsers) for Microsoft Windows and Apple macOS.</p>
      <p>1Password securely saves your credentials in your own 'Vault' and then offers to autofill those credentials the next time you need them.</p>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> has the Business tier of 1Password.</p>
    </body>
    <topic id="who-should-use-it">
      <title>Who should use it?</title>
      <body>
        <p>Currently, <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> 1Password accounts can be requested by service or operations teams that have a need for shared passwords.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="how-to-get-it">
    <title>How to get it</title>
    <body>
      <p>Contact the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/operationsengineeringteam"/> to request access.</p>
      <p>Make sure you include in your message:
      <ul>
        <li>which team you're in</li>
        <li>your role in your team</li>
        <li>why you need access</li>
      </ul></p>
    </body>
    <topic id="what-it-can-be-used-for">
      <title>What it can be used for</title>
      <body>
        <p>1Password can be used for sharing passwords within a team, when individual named accounts cannot be created in the service. A good example is running a shared Twitter account.</p>
        <note>If you have a business need for a shared Twitter account, consider using a more enterprise-orientated tool for social media posting, such as <xref href="https://tweetdeck.twitter.com/" format="html" scope="external">TweetDeck</xref> or <xref href="https://www.hootsuite.com/" format="html" scope="external">Hootsuite</xref>. You need <xref href="general-user-video-and-messaging-apps-guidance.dita" format="dita">formal approval</xref> to use tools like these.</note>
      </body>
      <topic id="personal-use">
        <title>Personal use</title>
        <body>
          <p>You <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshouldnot"/> use your <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> 1Password account to store personal non-work information as it is a work account belonging to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>. You may lose access if you change role. You will lose access entirely if you leave the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</p>
          <p>Operations Engineering cannot routinely access the contents of vaults but can reset accounts to gain access if there is a good reason to do so.</p>
        </body>
      </topic>
    </topic>
    <topic id="what-it-shouldnt-be-used-for">
      <title>What it shouldn't be used for</title>
      <body>
        <p>1Password <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshouldnot"/> be used for storing personal passwords, or for storing <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> documents. Use existing approved <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> services such as Office 365 or <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/gsuite"/> for storing <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> documents.</p>
        <p>You <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshouldnot"/> use 1Password for 'secrets' that belong to systems, only credentials to be used by humans.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="how-to-use-it">
    <title>How to use it</title>
    <topic id="getting-started">
      <title>Getting started</title>
      <body>
        <p>You will be sent an email to your <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> work email account inviting you to create your account. 1Password have <xref href="https://support.1password.com/explore/get-started/" format="html" scope="external">'getting started' guides</xref> on their website.</p>
      </body>
      <topic id="creating-your-primary-password">
        <title>Creating your primary password</title>
        <body>
          <p>You need to create a primary password - this is the only password you'll need to remember.</p>
          <p>It <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be at least 14 characters long (the longer the better).</p>
          <p>You can choose to make it pronounceable and memorable (passphrase) such as <codeph>CyberSecurityRules!</codeph> or <codeph>Sup3rD00p3rc0Mp3X!</codeph>, as long as you're comfortable remembering it and won't need to write it down.</p>
          <p>There are password guidance standards <xref href="passwords.dita" format="dita">here</xref>.</p>
          <p>Your primary password <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be unique and you <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshouldnot"/> use it anywhere else (including a similar version, for example, by simply adding numbers to the end)</p>
        </body>
      </topic>
      <topic id="multi-factor-authentication">
        <title>Multi-Factor Authentication</title>
        <body>
          <p>You <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> setup multi-factor authentication (MFA, sometimes known as 2FA) for your <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> account.</p>
          <p>1Password has a <xref href="https://support.1password.com/two-factor-authentication/" format="html" scope="external">guide on setting up MFA</xref>.</p>
          <p audience="audience-tech">The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> has an 'order of preference' for <xref href="authentication.dita" format="dita" type="topic">which types of MFA to use</xref>:
          <ul>
            <li>Hardware-based (for example, Yubikeys)</li>
            <li>Software-based (for example, Google Prompt on a mobile device)</li>
            <li>TOTP-based (the code is held by a dedicated app such as Google or LastPass Authenticator on a mobile device)</li>
            <li>SMS-based (a one-time code sent via SMS)</li>
          </ul></p>
          <p>If you don't have an <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>-issued work smartphone you may use a personal device for MFA.</p>
        </body>
      </topic>
    </topic>
    <topic id="sharing-passwords">
      <title>Sharing passwords</title>
      <body>
        <p>To share a password, create a <xref href="https://support.1password.com/create-share-vaults/" format="html" scope="external">Vault</xref>.</p>
        <p>You <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> make sure the credentials you're sharing are only available to the people who need to access them for <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> work. It is your responsibility to remove items or people from vaults when access to the credential(s) is no longer required.</p>
        <p>You <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymustnot"/> share your 1Password main password with anyone, even your line manager or <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> security.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="using-it-overseas">
      <title>Using it overseas</title>
      <body>
        <p>Taking a device (such as personal smartphone) that has <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> 1Password installed counts as travelling overseas with <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> information.</p>
        <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> has existing <xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/guidance/security/staff-security-and-responsibilities/travelling-abroad-business-or-personal/" format="html" scope="external">policies on travelling abroad on the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> intranet</xref>, which require various approvals before travel.</p>
        <p>It may be simpler to 'log out' of the 1Password applications or enable <xref href="https://support.1password.com/travel-mode/" format="html" scope="external">Travel Mode</xref> to remove vaults from your devices. These can be reinstated when you return to the UK.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="keeping-1password-update-to-date">
      <title>Keeping 1Password update to date</title>
      <body>
        <p>Like all software, it is important to keep the software up to date (sometimes known as 'patching'). 1Password software generally self-updates to the latest version by itself, however make sure you approve or apply any updates if 1Password asks you to.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="need-help">
      <title>Need help?</title>
      <body>
        <p>If you need help <i>installing</i> 1Password contact the relevant <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/servicedesk"/>.</p>
        <p>If you need help using 1Password such as getting access to vaults or resetting your primary password as you have forgotten it, contact <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/operationsengineeringteam"/>s.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
  <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#contact-details"><title/></topic>
</topic>
