<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="voluntary-drug-testing-policy">
  <title>Voluntary drug testing policy</title>
  <body/>
  <topic id="scope">
    <title>Scope</title>
    <body>
      <p>This policy covers access to a range of government assets at risk from a
        wide range of national security threats.
        These threats may be related to
        terrorism,
        espionage,
        sabotage,
        or serious organised crime.
        Vulnerabilities may also arise from disaffected employees (known as
        <q>insiders</q>) who could seek to exploit their level of access.</p>
        <!-- FIXME -->
      <p>This policy should be read in conjunction with <b>Voluntary Drug Testing
Policy Procedures</b>.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="purpose">
    <title>Purpose</title>
    <body>
      <p>Substance misuse threatens the efficiency and delivery of business.
        It can impair judgment and affect an employee's ability to carry out their
        role and responsibilities effectively and to the standard expected from
        HMG and the public.</p>
      <p>Additionally,
        it can make an individual vulnerable by leaving them open to pressure,
        inducement,
        or blackmail.
        It can also affect their suitability to continue to hold security clearance.</p>
      <p>This policy sets out the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/>
        approach to voluntary drug testing which is used as a risk management tool
        for personnel security.
        It helps identify potential risks and vulnerabilities to national security and
        allows them to be managed appropriately and proportionately.</p>
      <p>Specifically, it seeks to:
      <ul>
        <li>Minimise the likelihood of existing employees becoming a security concern.</li>
        <li>Implement security measures in a way that is proportionate to the risk.</li>
      </ul></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="government-functional-standard-outcomes">
    <title>Government Functional Standard Outcomes</title>
    <body>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/gov007"/> states personnel assurance
        is fundamental to good security.
        It demands that Government organisations will deliver the appropriate
        combination of recruitment checks,
        vetting,
        and on-going personnel security management.
        This allows them to be assured about their people and to mitigate risks from
        well-placed insiders.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="policy-statement">
    <title>Policy Statement</title>
    <body>
      <p>To achieve this security outcome,
        the following <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be followed by the
        <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.
      <ul>
        <li>Determine the need for voluntary drug testing using a threat and
          risk management approach,
          based on evidence supplied throughout the National Security Vetting (NSV) process.</li>
        <li>Individuals <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/>
          co-operate fully with any request to provide a voluntary sample collection
          for drug testing.</li>
        <li>Confirmation of test results,
          and any subsequent decision making made,
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/>
          be held on the individual's vetting file,
          and stored in accordance with the organisation's retention periods.</li>
        <li>Test results <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshallnot"/>
          be used for any other purpose than deciding suitability to hold NSV.
          Exceptions to this include legal obligations (for example Court order,
          or Police warrant),
          or the transfer of records to another Vetting Authority,
          as part of clearance confirmation procedures,
          or where there is an overriding corporate duty of care to the vetting subject.</li>
        <li>Any new information or concerns affecting the reliability of an individual
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be reported to,
          and dealt with by,
          <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/groupsecurityemailtext"/>,
          in conjunction with the Senior Security Advisor.</li>
      </ul></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
</topic>
