<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="voluntary-drug-testing-policy-procedures">
  <title>Voluntary drug testing policy procedures</title>
  <topic id="introduction">
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <body>
      <p>The Cluster 2 Security Unit (C2SU) forms part of the Transforming
        Government Security programme which aims to standardise and strengthen
        operational security across Government.</p>
      <p>Cluster 2 is one of four cross-Government Security Clusters which
        delivers operational security services to the following Government
        organisations:
      <ul>
        <li>Home Office</li>
        <li>DEFRA</li>
        <li>Department for Education</li>
        <li>Department for Transport</li>
        <li><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/></li>
        <li>Ministry for Housing,
          Communities,
          and Local Government</li>
      </ul></p>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Senior Security Advisor (SSA)
        is responsible for the overall management of security and for ensuring
        that the Cluster services and policies provided meet Government and
        organisational aims for improved security in Government.</p>
      <p>If you have any queries about this information,
        contact <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/groupsecurityemailtext"/>.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="procedures">
    <title>Procedures</title>
    <body>
      <p>These policy procedures support and underpin the
        <q>Maintaining Security: Voluntary Drug Testing Policy</q>.
        Unless otherwise noted,
        these procedures <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be complied with fully.</p>
    </body>
    <topic id="aftercare-arrangements-use-of-voluntary-drug-testing">
      <title>Aftercare arrangements: Use of Voluntary Drug Testing</title>
      <body>
        <p>A security clearance requires ongoing review.
          A voluntary drugs test is one of a range of vetting aftercare arrangements which provides
          assurance and confirms that staff are suitable for ongoing access to sensitive government
          information and assets.
          Drug testing is a voluntary process which enables security clearances to be assessed and
          granted in cases where they would ordinarily be refused.</p>
        <p>Voluntary drug testing is used when illegal drug use is admitted to
          during the vetting process.</p>
        <p>C2SU decide on a case-by-case basis whether drug testing is necessary.
          C2SU also identify any potential security risks to Government assets in consultation
          with the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Senior Security Advisor.
          In any event,
          the individual must commit to not using any type of illegal drugs during any period
          of employment with the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="drug-testing-arrangements">
      <title>Drug testing arrangements</title>
      <body>
        <p>C2SU set a timeframe in which an individual will be periodically tested for a panel
          of illegal drugs by an accredited and approved drug testing provider.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="disclosure-of-personal-information">
      <title>Disclosure of personal information</title>
      <body>
        <p>Personal information needs to be disclosed to the approved drug testing provider
          to support the administration of the drug testing process.
          By agreeing to take part in the voluntary drug test,
          the individual is subsequently consenting to the following personal information being provided:
        <ul>
          <li>Full name.</li>
          <li>Date of birth.</li>
          <li>Place of work (for example,
            <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>).</li>
          <li>Declaration of illegal drug use both historic and
            current (including type of drug(s),
            frequency,
            and quantity).</li>
          <li>Declaration of controlled substances both historic and current
            (for example,
            prescription medications).</li>
          <li>Other medical history required to help safely facilitate the drug testing process.</li>
        </ul></p>
        <p>This information is used only for the purposes of facilitating the drug testing process.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="sample-collection">
      <title>Sample collection</title>
      <body>
        <p>The primary method for the sample collection is a hair sample.
          However,
          in some circumstances other alternative methods,
          such as a urine sample,
          may be used for drug testing analysis.
          At each drug test an alternative hair or urine sample is taken
          to allow for independent re-testing,
          if required (for example if a test result is inconclusive or further
          evidential testing is required).</p>
        <p>The individual is expected to co-operate fully with any request to
          provide a sample collection.
          If the initial request cannot be met due to availability issues,
          such as pre-arranged annual leave commitments,
          the individual must arrange as soon as possible with the C2SU's
          drug testing provider,
          and no later than five working days after the unavailable period,
          to provide a sample collection for drug testing analysis.</p>
        <p>If,
          due to a change of circumstances beyond the individual's control,
          they are unable to attend the scheduled appointment,
          they must give advanced noticed (minimum of 24 hours) and reason(s)
          for non-attendance to C2SU and the drug testing provider.
          The appointment must be rescheduled within seven days of the original
          appointment date.</p>
        <p>Failure to either provide advanced notice to C2SU and the drug testing provider,
          or reschedule the original appointment date within the set timeframe,
          is interpreted as the individual's unilateral withdrawal from the
          vetting aftercare arrangements,
          and could lead to withdrawal of the security clearance.</p>
        <p>Failure to co-operate with any part of the drugs testing process,
          or if C2SU has reason to believe that deliberate attempts by the individual
          are being made to delay,
          frustrate,
          or circumvent the process,
          is interpreted as the individual's unilateral withdrawal from the national
          security vetting aftercare arrangements and could lead to the withdrawal
          of the security clearance.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="raising-concerns">
      <title>Raising concerns</title>
      <body>
        <p>Any concerns about the sample collection process,
          or about the approved drug testing provider,
          must be raised with C2SU at once and in any event prior to receiving
          confirmation of drug testing results.
          C2SU investigates any concerns raised with the approved drug testing provider.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="confirmation-of-test-results">
      <title>Confirmation of test results</title>
      <body>
        <p>Confirmation of test results is provided in full to the individual,
          and shared in their entirety with the Cluster 2 Aftercare Security Unit.</p>
        <p>Any positive trace of illegal drugs is grounds for assessing the individual's
          suitability to hold security clearance.
          The level of security clearance withdrawn is decided by C2SU on a case-by-case basis.</p>
        <p>Confirmation of test results,
          and any subsequent decision making made by C2SU,
          is held on the individual's vetting file and stored in accordance with C2SU retention periods.</p>
        <p>The test results are not be used for any purpose other than deciding on
          suitability to hold national security vetting.
          Exceptions to this include legal obligations (for example court order or police warrant),
          or the transfer of records to another Vetting Authority as part of clearance confirmation procedures,
          or where there is an overriding corporate duty of care to the vetting subject.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="self-reporting">
      <title>Self-reporting</title>
      <body>
        <p>Following the Cluster 2 department's Drugs and Alcohol Substance Policy,
          or equivalent,
          individuals misusing substances are encouraged to discuss this with their
          line manager and urged to seek expert help and advice at the earliest opportunity.</p>
        <p>Additionally,
          holders of national security vetting clearance at all levels are expected to show
          the highest level of honesty,
          integrity,
          transparency,
          openness,
          and frankness in sharing personal information (including lifestyle habits,
          and changes to them) of security relevance,
          or when engaging with C2SU.
          Dishonesty and intent to mislead or conceal is viewed seriously and influences
          whether the clearance is kept.</p>
        <p><b>All information shared with C2SU is treated in confidence.
            Support is provided where possible.</b></p>
        <p>Self-reporting of any drug misuse is not necessarily considered as
          automatic grounds for the withdrawal of security clearance.
          C2SU assess everyone on a case-by-case basis.
          However,
          failure to self-report drug misuse which later comes to light
          via drug testing,
          or any other means,
          is likely to lead to security clearance being withdrawn.</p>
        <p>The following contributing factors are considered by C2SU.
          This is not an exhaustive list:
          <!-- HERE -->
        <ul>
          <li>The type and quantity of illegal drug usage.</li>
          <li>Previous history of the misuse of illegal drugs.</li>
          <li>How long since the previous declaration of illegal drugs use.</li>
          <li>How the illegal substances were acquired.</li>
          <li>The environment in which the illegal drug use took place.</li>
        </ul></p>
        <p>C2SU assess an individual’s suitability to continue to hold security
clearance by deciding the level of risk they have of being susceptible
to pressure or improper influence, or indicate unreliability, because of
their actions. The principles around national security vetting focus
specifically on the threats posed to UK national security (e.g.
terrorism, espionage, or other actions that would threaten the UK). The
threats and any subsequent risks to the business will differ so they are
assessed and managed by locally produced business-related policy and
procedures.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="appealing-decisions-of-withdrawing-security-clearance">
      <title>Appealing decisions of withdrawing security clearance</title>
      <body>
        <p>If a security clearance is withdrawn following a positive test result,
the appeal rights and processes are the same as for withdrawal/refusal
of national security vetting clearance for any other reason. Any appeal
is dealt with following the terms of the Security Clearance Appeals
Procedure. These state that right of appeal applies to those falling
under the following criteria:</p>
        <ul>
          <li>Permanent members of <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> staff</li>
          <li>Current contractors or other non-permanent staff, already engaged in
<ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> work</li>
          <li>Current permanent members of staff of other government departments
and organisations who have applied for/transferred a security
clearance with the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/></li>
          <li>Current contractors already engaged on government work in other
departments and organisations who have applied for/transferred a
security clearance with the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>.</li>
        </ul>
        <p>There is no right of appeal for individuals on recruitment to the Civil
Service seeking employment or contractual work with the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>. For further
information on Security Clearance Appeals Procedure, contact Group
Security (<xref href="mailto:mojgroupsecurity@justice.gov.uk" format="email" scope="external">mojgroupsecurity@justice.gov.uk</xref>).</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="appealing-a-positive-drug-test">
      <title>Appealing a positive drug test</title>
      <body>
        <p>Any disputed drug test must be appealed to C2SU, in writing, within five
days of receiving confirmation of a test result.</p>
        <p>An appeal must detail the reason(s) why the positive result is being
disputed. This information will be shared with the approved drug testing
provider and the positive test results will be subject to further
scientific expert analysis to decide the probability of the positive
test result being incorrect. The results of any secondary testing will
be treated as final.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="review-of-drug-testing-arrangements">
      <title>Review of drug testing arrangements</title>
      <body>
        <p>The requirement for drug testing individual cases will be subject to
ongoing review, on a case-by-case basis, by C2SU. The individual will be
formally notified by C2SU if this aftercare arrangement is withdrawn.</p>
      </body>
    </topic>
  </topic>
</topic>
