<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="web-browsing">
  <title>Web Browsing</title>
  <body>
    <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> provides access to the Intranet and Internet for business use.
      The access helps you to do your job effectively and efficiently.</p>
    <p><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> security policies governs your use of these facilities.</p>
    <p>
      <xref href="acceptable-use.dita" format="dita" platform="github">Reasonable</xref><xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/guidance/security/it-computer-security/acceptable-use/" format="html" scope="external" platform="intranet">Reasonable</xref> personal use is allowed,
      if:
    <ul>
      <li>Your line manager agrees.</li>
      <li>It does not interfere with the performance of your duties.</li>
    </ul></p>
    <p>You and your manager are responsible for ensuring that you use these systems responsibly.</p>
    <p>If you connect to a website that contains unsuitable,
      illegal or offensive material:
    <ul>
      <li>Disconnect from the site immediately.</li>
      <li>Inform your <xref href="#general-enquiries-including-theft-and-loss" format="dita"><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/servicedesk"/></xref>.</li>
    </ul></p>
    <p>The Department monitors the use of electronic communications and web-browsing activity.
      If your email use or web browsing seems unacceptable,
      your manager can request detailed activity reports.</p>
  </body>
  <topic id="what-websites-you-can-access">
    <title>What websites you can access</title>
    <body>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>'s approach to website access is continually reviewed and updated.
        By default,
        we try to allow access to as much as possible of the internet for all users.
        Inevitably, there are some restrictions, for the following reasons:</p>
        <p><b>Cyber Security</b>
        <ul><li>The site is an unacceptable security risk for <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> systems or users.
          For example, sites known to host malware are blocked.</li></ul></p>
        <p><b>Technical</b>
        <ul><li>The site causes technical issues which interfere with business activities.
          For example, a video site uses too much network capacity.</li></ul></p>
        <p><b>Business Policy</b>
        <ul><li>Only a specific individual or group of users can access the site.
          For example,
          social media sites are blocked for systems or users in frontline roles.</li></ul></p>
      <p>The list of websites included in each of the categories is as small as possible.
        But if you cannot access a site that you think should be OK,
        you can <xref href="#what-to-do-if-you-are-blocked-from-a-website-that-you-think-should-be-ok"
        format="dita" platform="github">request a review</xref><ph platform="intranet">request a review</ph>.
        Similarly,
        if you can access a site that you think should be blocked,
        <xref href="#what-to-do-if-you-are-able-to-access-a-website-that-you-think-should-be-blocked"
          format="dita" platform="github">request a review</xref><ph platform="intranet">request a review</ph>.</p>
      <p audience="audience-tech">The access rules that apply are described in detail <xref href="web-browsing-security-policy-profiles.dita" format="dita">here</xref>.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="what-to-do-if-you-are-blocked-from-a-website-that-you-think-should-be-ok">
    <title>What to do if you are blocked from a website that you think should be OK</title>
    <body>
      <p>Log an incident with your <xref href="#general-enquiries-including-theft-and-loss"
        format="dita" platform="github"><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/servicedesk"/></xref><ph platform="intranet"><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/servicedesk"/></ph>.</p>
      <p>Provide the following details:
      <ul>
        <li>The address of the website.</li>
        <li>The time you visited the site.</li>
        <li>The details of any block message that you received.</li>
      </ul></p>
      <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/servicedesk"/> will investigate the reason why you cannot access the website.</p>
      <p>If there was a system error or fault,
        remedial action will restore access.</p>
      <p>If the block is due to an access rule,
        Operational Security reviews whether to change the rule.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="what-to-do-if-you-are-able-to-access-a-website-that-you-think-should-be-blocked">
    <title>What to do if you are able to access a website that you think should be blocked</title>
    <body>
      <p>Log an incident with your <xref href="#general-enquiries-including-theft-and-loss"
        format="dita" platform="github"><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/servicedesk"/></xref><ph platform="intranet"><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/servicedesk"/></ph>.</p>
      <p>Provide the following details:
      <ul>
        <li>The address of the website.</li>
        <li>The time you visited the site.</li>
        <li>The reason why you think the site should be blocked.</li>
      </ul></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="other-help">
    <title>Other help</title>
    <body>
      <ul>
        <li>HMPPS Prison - All requests should be directed to the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/servicedesk"/> via a local or area IT Manager.</li>
        <li>HMPPS Probation - Log an incident with your <xref href="#general-enquiries-including-theft-and-loss"
          format="dita" platform="github"><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/servicedesk"/></xref><ph platform="intranet"><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/servicedesk"/></ph>.</li>
        <li>All other teams, contact the Operational Security Team: <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/ostemail"/></li>
      </ul>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="general-enquiries-including-theft-and-loss" conref="conrefs.dita#general-enquiries-including-theft-and-loss"><title/></topic>
  <topic id="feedback" platform="html epub" conref="conrefs.dita#feedback"><title/></topic>
</topic>
