<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="working-securely-with-paper-documents-and-files">
  <title>Working securely with paper documents and files</title>
  <body>
    <p>To help identify formal policy statements, each is prefixed with an identifier of the form: <b>POL.PPR.xxx</b>, where <b>xxx</b> is a unique ID number.</p>
    </body>
  <topic id="audience">
    <title>Audience</title>
    <body>
        <p>This guidance complements the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/mojlong"/> overall security policy.</p>
        <p>This guidance applies to all employees, contractors, partners, and service providers, including those on co-located sites and sites owned by other public bodies. This includes employees of other organisations who are based in, or work at, <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> occupied premises.</p>
        <p><b>POL.PPR.001</b>: Agencies and arm's length bodies (ALBs) <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> comply with this corporate framework but <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policycan"/> establish their own arrangements tailored to operational needs and <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> supplement this framework with local policy or guidance for any business-specific risk.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="objective">
    <title>Objective</title>
    <body>
        <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> requires employees and contractors to get into the habit of looking after the information that they work with, whether it is on paper or stored electronically, in the same way that they would take care of their personal valuables.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="scope-and-definition">
    <title>Scope and Definition</title>
    <body>
        <p>This guidance helps you understand the risks involved in working with, sharing, and moving paper documents both inside and outside the office. It covers any information that relates to the business of the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/>, its stakeholders, or partners, where the information has been printed out or written down on paper.
            <note>This guidance applies also to the contents of personal information systems, such as notebooks.</note></p>
        <p>This guidance outlines the basic principles of working securely with paper documents and files.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="context">
    <title>Context</title>
    <body>
        <p>All <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> information is valuable. There is a requirement to protect everything that relates to the department's business, including information provided by others.
            <note>The protection requirement applies to all information, not just information that is covered by the Data Protection Act or classified under the <xref href="government-classification-scheme.dita" format="dita" audience="audience-basic audience-suppliers audience-tech">government-wide security classification system</xref><ph audience="audience-gs">government-wide security classification system</ph>.</note></p>
        <p>There are different rules for managing and protecting various kinds of paper-based information. You <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> know how to:
            <ul>
                <li><p>Identify the correct security level for the information you work with.</p></li>
                <li><p>Handle the information according to the relevant rules.</p></li>
            </ul></p>
    </body>
  </topic>
    <topic id="responsibilities">
        <title>Responsibilities</title>
        <body>
            <p>All employees, contractors, partners, service providers and employees of other organisations who are on <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> premises or co-located sites remain accountable for the security, health,and safety of themselves, colleagues, and the protection of departmental assets.</p>
        </body>
    </topic>
    <topic id="policy-statements">
        <title>Policy statements</title>
        <body/>
        <topic id="identifying-the-correct-security-level">
            <title>Identifying the correct security level</title>
            <body>
                <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> uses the government-wide <xref href="government-classification-scheme.dita" format="dita" audience="audience-basic audience-suppliers audience-tech">security classification system</xref><ph audience="audience-gs">security classification system</ph> to indicate the level of security that the various types of information require. The different classifications are based upon the harm that would be caused if controls were breached.</p>
                <p><b>POL.PPR.002</b>: Within the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/official"/> classification, material does not normally need to have the classification written on it. However, particularly sensitive information <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> be marked with the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/official-sensitive"/> handling caveat if it requires more robust access and handling controls to prevent more damaging consequences from disclosure.</p>
                <p><b>POL.PPR.003</b>: Information handled in the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> might not always have a visible classification marking. If any file contains material with a marking, then the cover of the file <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> be marked with the highest level of any of the contents.</p>
                <p>To identify the right security level for information, think about:
                <ul>
                    <li><p>How sensitive that information is.</p></li>
                    <li><p>Whether it contains personal data that could be used to identify individuals.</p></li>
                    <li><p>What the consequences might be if the information was compromised or misused.</p></li>
                    <li><p>Whether the information is likely to be under threat from anyone with a high intercept capability. If so, the information might require marking at a higher classification than <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/official"/>. <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/higherclassification"/></p></li>
                </ul></p>
                <p>If you are in any doubt, ask your line manager or contact <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/securityemailtext"/>.</p>
            </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="allocating-security-levels-and-marking">
            <title>Allocating security levels and marking</title>
            <body>
                <p><b>POL.PPR.004</b>: If you are generating original information, you <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> apply the <xref href="government-classification-scheme.dita" format="dita" audience="audience-basic audience-suppliers audience-tech">standard rules</xref><ph audience="audience-gs">standard rules</ph> to decide which classification to use. Do not set security levels higher than necessary. Set the classification that is appropriate at the time. Classification can be altered later if circumstances change, such as when material is no longer embargoed or has been released intentionally for consultation.</p>
                <p><b>POL.PPR.005</b>: For material at <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/official-sensitive"/> or higher classifications, the classification <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> be written in capitals at the top and bottom of each page of the document. You <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> use the header and footer facility if creating electronically, and include page numbers by using the format <codeph>Page x of y</codeph>. You <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> only create documents at classification levels higher than <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/official"/> on approved IT systems. <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/higherclassification"/> Files and documents <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> be marked according to the most sensitive piece of information included.</p>
            </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="data-protection-act">
            <title>Data Protection Act</title>
            <body>
                <p>If the information in the documents or files can be used to identify living individuals, or could identify living individuals when used in conjunction with other <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> material, then the information is covered by the Data Protection Act (DPA). The Act covers not only information such as name, address, and date of birth, but also expressions of opinion about or intentions towards an individual.</p>
                <p><b>POL.PPR.006</b>: Paper-based information that is covered by the DPA <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> be managed according to the general principles of working securely with paper documents and files set out here.</p>
            </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="handling-paper-based-information-in-the-office">
            <title>Handling paper-based information in the office</title>
            <body>
                <p>Think carefully before leaving papers unattended on desks, in the same way that you would avoid leaving your own personal correspondence – or even a purse or wallet – in plain view.</p>
                <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> has a <xref href="clear-screen-and-desk.dita" format="dita" audience="audience-basic audience-suppliers audience-tech">clear desk policy</xref><ph audience="audience-gs">clear desk policy</ph> that is intended to ensure information is seen only by people who 'need to know' it.</p>
                <p>This means:
                <ul>
                    <li><p>Not leaving documents or files on a desk when not being used.</p></li>
                    <li><p>Locking documents or files in a secure cabinet when you leave the office.</p></li>
                </ul></p>
                <p>Failure to follow this policy could expose files and papers to the risk of being seen during the working day by other staff, or visitors to the office and, out of hours, by guards and cleaners. Even apparently non-sensitive information should be looked after. Putting papers away also protects them from damage from fire, smoke, or water.</p>
                <p>There are different controls regarding how the various levels of classified information are secured. Refer to the <xref href="information-classification-handling-and-security-guide.dita" format="dita" audience="audience-basic audience-suppliers audience-tech">Information classification, handling and security guide</xref><ph audience="audience-gs">Information classification, handling and security guide</ph> for more information.</p>
            </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="taking-documents-and-files-out-of-the-office">
            <title>Taking documents and files out of the office</title>
            <body>
                <p>Occasionally, you might need to take <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> information outside <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> premises. Examples might be when you are working from home, or moving between <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> buildings. At such times, it is likely that you'll be carrying valuable information within documents, paper files and personal notebooks.</p>
                <p><b>POL.PPR.007</b>: Always check first whether it is really necessary to take documents out of the office. If it is essential to do so, you <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> get permission from your line management, especially if the information includes:
                <ul>
                    <li><p>Personal information, including anything that relates to an identifiable individual or individuals, such as <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> staff, stakeholders, partners, or customers.</p></li>
                    <li><p>Material marked <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/official-sensitive"/>.</p></li>
                </ul></p>
                <p><b>POL.PPR.008</b>: You <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> get permission from a head of division, or from a member of the Senior Civil Service (SCS) if the information is marked at a level higher than <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/official-sensitive"/>. Removal or relocation of information marked at a level higher than <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/official-sensitive"/> <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be noted and recorded on a register, and a record kept of when the material is logged back in.</p>
                <p><b>POL.PPR.009</b>: If you are carrying papers out of the office, you <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> protect them against accidental loss such as an accident or distraction, causing you to drop or misplace them.</p>
                <p><b>POL.PPR.010</b>: Ideally, carry papers in an unmarked case. For papers marked <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/official-sensitive"/> or higher, or when using public transport, you <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> use a lockable case.</p>
                <p><b>POL.PPR.011</b>: For short journeys, such as on foot, and where you are not stopping or using public transport, it is acceptable to carry <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/official"/> papers in a plain envelope, marked only with your name and office address.</p>
                <p><b>POL.PPR.012</b>: If carrying papers to a meeting at a different location, you <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshallnot"/> allow sensitive details to be visible. The reason is that they could be photographed by a journalist.</p>
                <p><b>POL.PPR.012.001</b>: Papers <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> be stapled together or otherwise secured in a package. This is to limit dispersal if the carrying case or envelope becomes damaged or opened.</p>
                <p><b>POL.PPR.013</b>: Cases or envelopes <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> have the minimum details necessary on the outside to assure safe return of the item, if lost, without having to be opened to reveal the contents.</p>
                <p><b>POL.PPR.014</b>: Documents <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymustnot"/> be left unattended in public places or in an unattended car. Care <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> be taken if you are reading protectively marked information in public places where you might be overlooked, such as a train, or where it might be difficult to retrieve a document if you lost hold of it, for example if you dropped it, or it was blown away.</p>
                <p>If you are taking papers home, ensure that they are not readily accessible to other members of your household. Take precautions to minimise their loss. If the papers would normally be locked away in the office, try to do the same at home.</p>
            </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="sending-documents">
            <title>Sending documents</title>
            <body>
                <p>Options for sending documents are covered in the Sending Information guidance note.</p>
            </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="disposing-of-paper-information">
            <title>Disposing of paper information</title>
            <body>
                <p><ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> offices have bins or bags that are specifically intended for secure waste disposal of documents or files, including:
                <ul>
                    <li><p>Personal information that relates to an identifiable individual or individuals.</p></li>
                    <li><p>Sensitive information that <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshouldnot"/> be disclosed.</p></li>
                    <li><p>Any material bearing a visible classification marking.</p></li>
                </ul></p>
                <p><b>POL.PPR.015</b>: You <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> read and follow the <xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/guidance/security/report-a-security-incident/secure-waste-disposal/" format="html" scope="external">secure waste disposal</xref> guidance on the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Intranet before disposing of any document or files.</p>
                <p><b>POL.PPR.016</b>: Before disposing of information, you <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshould"/> check whether it should be retained on a file, and whether it is covered by a 'retention schedule'. The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/recordsretentionemailtext"/> can advise on this.</p>
            </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="long-term-storage">
            <title>Long-term storage</title>
            <body>
                <p>The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> has arrangements for the secure long-term storage of paper documents and files. If you want to keep paper-based information, but no longer need to regular access to it, refer to the information on the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> Intranet regarding <xref href="https://intranet.justice.gov.uk/guidance/knowledge-information/managing-information/keeping-deleting-disclosing-info/paper-other-formats/" format="html" scope="external">keeping, deleting, and disclosing information</xref>. The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/recordsretentionemailtext"/> can provide additional guidance.</p>
            </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="what-to-do-if-you-think-there-has-been-a-security-breach">
            <title>What to do if you think there has been a security breach</title>
            <body>
                <p><b>POL.PPR.017</b>: If you suspect that the security of the information you work with has been compromised in any way, you <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> <xref href="reporting-an-incident.dita" format="dita" audience="audience-basic audience-suppliers audience-tech">report it immediately</xref><ph audience="audience-gs">report it immediately</ph>.
                <note>A security breach does not have to involve the actual loss of information. The potential loss of information also counts. For example, if a security cabinet has been left unsecured, there may be no evidence that any information has been lost or interfered with, but there is a clear potential for loss or damage.</note></p>
            </body>
        </topic>
    </topic>
  <topic id="compliance">
    <title>Compliance</title>
    <body>
        <p><b>POL.PPR.018</b>: The level of risk and potential impact to <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> assets, and, most importantly, physical harm to our people and the public, determines the controls to be applied and the degree of assurance required. The <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/moj"/> <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policyshall"/> ensure a baseline of physical security measures are in place at each site, and receive annual assurance that measures are in place to provide appropriate protection to all occupants and assets, and that these measures can be strengthened when required, such as in response to a security incident or change in the Government Response Level.</p>
        <p><b>POL.PPR.019</b>: The implementation of all security measures <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/policymust"/> be able to provide evidence that the selection was been made in accordance with the appropriate information security standards ISO27001/27002, Physical Security advice taken from the <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/cpnilong"/>, and <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/gov007"/>.</p>
        <p>The constantly changing security landscape has necessarily dictated that Physical Security measures be constantly re-evaluated and tested to meet new threats and other emerging vulnerabilities. This policy and subsequent supporting standards is subject to annual review or more frequently if warranted.</p>
    </body>
      <topic id="physical-security-advice">
          <title>Physical security advice</title>
          <body>
          <p>Physical security advice can be obtained by contacting <ph conref="conrefs.dita#conrefs/securityemailtext"/>.</p>
          </body>
      </topic>
  </topic>
    <topic id="contact-details" conref="conrefs.dita#contact-details"><title/></topic>
    
</topic>
