---
Review: 2020-12-31
Owner: CISO
Target audience:
---

[Home > Cyber and Technical Security](home-security-policies-guides.md)

# Technical Controls Guide: Defensive Layer 2

This guide is a sub-page to the [Technical Controls Guide](technical-security-controls-guide.md).

## Defensive layer 2: implementing monitoring capabilities

The table below identifies the security controls that should be implemented to mature existing Layer 1 controls and enable the capability of active monitoring of the MoJ network.  

<table>
<tr><th>Do</th></tr>
<tr><td>✔ Monitor login attempts and block access after 10 unsuccessful attempts.</td></tr>
<tr><td>✔ Implement session timeouts and block accounts after a defined period of inactivity, for example, 5 minutes.</td></tr>
<tr><td>✔ Implement a mobile device management solution to enable the wiping of mobile devices where access to the device has been lost or unauthorised access identified, for example, in the event of:
<ul>
<li>an identified data breach</li>
<li>an identified policy breach such as jailbreaking a device</li>
<li>a lost device, and/or</li>
<li>the end of an employment contract, for example, for an employee or contractor.</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td>✔ Use automation tools for easy search and retrieval of information from logs collected from end points, for example, AI machine-based learning for keyword searching.</td></tr>
<tr><td>✔ Terminate network connections associated with communication sessions. For example the de-allocation of:
<ul>
<li>associated TCP/IP address pairs at the operating system level, and</li>
<li>network assignments at the application level  if multiple application sessions are using a single, operating system level network connection.</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td>✔ Implement maintenance tools. For example:
<ul>
<li>hardware/software diagnostic test equipment</li>
<li>hardware/software packet sniffers</li>
<li>software tools to discover improper or unauthorised tool modification.</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td>✔ use monitoring systems to generate alerts and discuss options with the Operational Security Team (OST)</td></tr>
<tr><td>✔ have the capability to respond to alerts generated by the monitoring system or by users and discuss options with OST</t></tr>
<tr><td>✔ Control the development and use of mobile code, whether developed in-house or through acquisitions, by following a formalised development and onboarding process.</td></tr>
<tr><td>✔ Implement concurrent session control which is defined by:
<ul>
<li>account type (e.g. privileged and non-privileged users, domain, application)</li>
<li>account role (e.g. system admins, critical domains/applications)</li>
<li>a combination of both.</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td>✔ Implement spam protection tools, which have the capability to:
<ul>
<li>monitor system entry and exit points such as mail servers, web servers, proxy servers, workstations and mobile devices</li>
<li>incorporate signature-based detection</li>
<li>implement filters for continuous learning.</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td>✔ Use error handling techniques, such as pop-up messages, which provide information necessary for corrective actions without revealing data that can be exploited by threat actors.</td></tr>
</table>

The table below sets out the guidance for what actions should **not** be undertaken when implementing Layer 2 security controls.

<table>
<tr><th>Do not</th></tr>
<tr><td>✖ allow connections between internal and external systems without carrying out security checks.</td></tr>
<tr><td>✖ allow the use of unauthorised software.  Software must be approved by the MoJ. Contact the Cyber Assistance Team (CAT) for advice at <a href="mailto:CyberConsultancy@digital.justice.gov.uk">CyberConsultancy@digital.justice.gov.uk</a>.</td></tr>
<tr><td>✖ allow general users to execute code on their mobile devices. Your devices should be able to:
<ul>
<li>identify malicious code</li>
<li>prevent downloading and execution</li>
<li>prevent automatic execution, and</li>
<li>allow execution only in secured and segregated environments.</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td>✖ display internal error messages such as stack traces, database dumps, and error codes to users outside of the MoJ-defined personnel and roles.</td></tr>
<tr><td>✖ allow unauthorised removal of maintenance equipment, for example, backup disks and power supplies.</td></tr>
<tr><td>✖ decommission maintenance equipment without appropriate security controls, for example:
<ul>
<li>verifying that there is no organisational information contained on the equipment</li>
<li>sanitising the equipment</li>
<li>retaining the equipment within the facility.</li></ul></td></tr>
</table>
